https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/transfer-adt-program Associate Degree for Transfer Program (ADT) | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Supplemental Application for Transfers Applicant Self Service Local Preference Admission Consideration Next Steps for Newly Admitted Transfer Students CSULB Home Admissions Associate Degree for Transfer Program (ADT) Associate Degree for Transfer Program (ADT) The Student Transfer Achievement Reform Act (SB 1440/Padilla) established the Associate Degrees for Transfer for California Community College students and is designed to provide a clear pathway to the CSU degree major. Depending on the major, students can pursue an Associate of Arts or an Associate of Science. For information on meeting the requirements for Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) students should contact their local Community College Transfer Center. Please note: The ADT is different from other Associate degrees offered by the California Community Colleges. Review the A Degree With A Guarantee web page for general information on the ADT Program. How will the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) be used in determining admission eligibility? Admission to all majors at CSULB is competitive as CSULB continues to have more qualified applicants than available new student spaces. All transfer students must declare a major when submitting their application. For the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) to be used in the admission process, the following must be met: The student must be pursuing an approved Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) at a California Community College. The ADT is different from other Associate degrees offered by the California Community Colleges. The Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) must be deemed ‘similar’ to a corresponding major program at CSULB. You must apply to that corresponding major at CSULB. Please note that not every major at every CSU Campus has a corresponding ADT program. The Community College must certify that you are on-track to complete the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) prior to the term you are applying to enter CSULB. All admission requirements must be met and the ADT must be granted no later than the prior Spring term in order to qualify for a Fall admission. All admission requirements must be met and the ADT must be granted no later than the prior Summer term in order to qualify for a Spring admission. If for any reason you do not complete your Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) your admission status will be re-evaluated, and we may withdraw your offer of admission. If the requirements above have been met, then: The Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) curriculum is used in lieu of requirements listed in our Major Specific Admission requirements. Under current CSU guidelines, your cumulative grade point average (GPA) will be increased by 0.1, and this ‘calculated GPA’ will be applied to the major specific minimum GPA and to any GPA used in the ranking of applicants. Please keep in mind that even with the benefits of the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT), admission into the University it is still very competitive. It is advised that students complete any recommended coursework listed for their major to be more competitive in the applicant pool. It is possible that CSULB may not have space available to accommodate all ADT applicants, and your application may be directed to another CSU campus. How will the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) be used in determining my CSULB graduation requirements? Students who have completed an approved Associate Degree for Transfer deemed ‘similar’ to their CSULB major are eligible to graduate in 60 units. The exact pathway to complete the specific major will depend on the specific ADT curriculum. As a result, the pathway will be determined in consultation with an advisor at new student orientation. The 60 unit graduation option will obviously not be possible if the student changes majors or elects to add any additional degree objective, such as a second major or minor. For additional information: Contact your community college transfer center for information on meeting the requirements for an Associate Degree for Transfer and to determine the ADT programs deemed similar to CSULB majors. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111