https://www.csulb.edu/enrollment-services/beach-central Beach Central | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Enrollment Services Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Beach Central Resources Enrollment Services Home Forms Ask Elbee Key Dates and Deadlines Uploading Documents Student Workshops Contact Us (Beach Central) How to Use Beach Central Meet the Beach Central Staff Forms Key Dates and Deadlines Registration and Schedule of Classes Tuition and Fees Student Workshops CSULB Home Enrollment Services Beach Central Beach Central Image Welcome to Beach Central: Your one-stop shop for support with Enrollment Services--including Admissions; Student Records; and Financial Aid & Scholarships. Our team is here to support you as you navigate your academic journey at The Beach! Connect with Beach Central by submitting a help ticket, scheduling an appointment, or giving us a call. Plus, use the Ask Elbee Chatbot at any time in the bottom right corner of your screen for general inquiries. Image The 2025-2026 FAFSA and CADAA forms are now open! Submit your application by the priority deadline of March 3rd, 2025 to be considered for the most types of aid. Still need to apply for aid for 2024-2025? Students who haven't yet submitted a FAFSA or CADAA are still encouraged to apply for aid for the 2024-2025 academic year through June 30, 2025. Keep in mind that you may not be eligible for certain types of aid (including CSULB or CA state-funded aid) since the priority deadline has passed. Get Started: Select your topic of interest below to submit a help ticket, make an appointment with a counselor, and more: If you need to drop off documents, you can visit the Brotman Hall first-floor Beach Central windows anytime during business hours. You can also visit the after-hours drop box to turn in official transcripts, CSU non-resident tuition exemption requests, CSU residency questionnaires, and financial aid documents. Image Intake Windows For general questions or to drop off documents, visit the intake windows during business hours in the Brotman Hall First Floor Courtyard. Appointments are not required. Image Admissions If you have a question about your application status, enrollment deposit, submitting transcripts, returning to CSULB, Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT), or residency, select this option. Image Financial Aid and Scholarships If you have a question about submitting financial aid documents, scholarships, federal work-study, financial aid appeals, or Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), select this option. Image Student Records If you have a question about adding or dropping classes, applying for graduation, transfer credit, academic appeals, Timely Graduation, educational leaves, or updating your personal information, select this option. Additional Information: Accessibility The Bob Murphy Access Center (BMAC) at CSU Long Beach’s mission is to assist students with disabilities at CSU Long Beach to achieve their educational degrees and prepare them to be career ready after graduation. Learn more about the Bob Murphy Access Center. Download the Beach Connect Mobile App Image Beach Connect is your mobile gateway to academic resources and student support services at CSULB! Remember to return to this app often to take advantage of special features, including: Manage to-dos and enrollment milestones Track reminders for important deadlines Make appointments with advisors and ask questions Seek advice from financial aid and student records counselors Review holds and receive registration support Connect with study buddies and tutoring resources Discover campus workshops, clubs, and organizations ...and more! Learn more and download via Beach Connect Mobile App. Location, Phone, and Office Hours Location Office Hours: Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Mailing Address: California State University, Long Beach Enrollment Services 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Beach Central Intake Windows (for General Inquiries and document drop-off): Brotman Hall, 1st Floor Courtyard Beach Central (Admissions, Student Records, and Financial Aid) Appointments: Brotman Hall 201 Phone Phone Service Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Admissions, Student Records, and General Support: 562.985.5471 (options 1 and 2) Student Financial Services (tuition and fee payments): 562.985.5471 (option 3) Financial Aid and Scholarships: 562.985.5471 (option 4) Image For support with Admissions; Financial Aid and Scholarships; and Student Records, submit a help ticket or make an appointment (virtual or in-person). Contact Us Visit: Intake Windows Brotman Hall, First Floor Courtyard Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Beach Central Appointments Brotman Hall, 201 Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Walk-ins welcome! Call: Phone: 562.985.5471 Phone Service Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. For Accessible Assistance Explore the Bob Murphy Access Center Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111