https://www.csulb.edu/beach-shops Beach Shops | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Beach Shops Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Home About Us At-A-Glance Board of Directors Corporate Information Health and Safety Mission Promotional Rules & Guidelines Staff Directory Student Auxiliary Enterprises Sustainability Campus Dining Campus Eateries University Dining Plaza Chartroom Restaurant Nugget Grill & Pub Outpost Grill Caffeine Lab Alcohol Sales and Service Convenience Stores Residential Dining University Bookstore Bookstore Home Supplies Clothing Technology Graduation Textbooks Students Faculty Day 1 Textbook Access (D1TA) ID Card Services ID Card Home Participating Locations Deposit Funds Meal Plans Get Your ID Campus Stores & Services Art Store Campus Printing and Design Custom Orders Tech Store Trademark Licensing Vendor Program DOR and Veteran Services LBS Financial EMPLOYMENT Work For Us Current Employees Open Enrollment Risk Management This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Beach Shops Beach Shops Follow us on Social Media! Shop at the University Bookstore Shop at the University Bookstore University Bookstore Campus Dining Campus Dining Where to Eat and Shop ID Card Services ID Card Services Get Your ID Supporting Student Success Supporting Student Success Our Mission Beach Shops Facebook Beach Shops Instagram Beach Shops YouTube CSULB Home Beach Shops This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. February Flash Sale: 40% Off All Shorts - February 3rd - 8th T-Shirt of the Month Save the Date! Grad Fair is March 10th - 13th Get All Your New Student Essentials Here! Where to Eat Search Current Job Openings Compare Textbook Prices Here! More News BEACH SHOPS Since 1953 We are a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation that has been serving the CSULB campus community since 1953. Comprised of the University Bookstore, Campus Dining Services and Convenience Stores and the ID Card Services Office, our mission is to enhance and support the educational process of California State University, Long Beach by providing goods and services to promote a learning community; by training student employees with life and career skills; and by funding scholarships, internships, and other programs that promote student success. Contact Us 6049 E 7th St, Long Beach, CA 90840 Phone: 562.985.5093 Email: fns-communications@csulb.edu BEACH SHOPS UPDATES We are committed to the health and safety of our employees, customers and campus community. Our staff is working hard to ensure that we are in compliance with local, state and federal regulations. To learn more about our safety measures please visit our Health and Safety page. For the most updated list of open locations and hours of operation, check out our Where to Eat page. You can also shop online and pick up at the University Bookstore or have items shipped directly to your home. Please visit our FAQ page for available services and shipping information. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111