https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/certificate-programs-overview Certificate Programs Overview | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Next Steps for Admitted Certificate Students Financial Aid for Certificate Students Obtaining Your Certificate Graduate Application Guide (PDF) CSULB Home Admissions Certificate Programs Overview Certificate Programs Overview CSULB offers a number of programs leading to the award of a certificate. Certificate programs typically require completion of 24 to 27 units of coursework and emphasize the practical application of knowledge. What certificate programs are offered at CSULB? You can review the certificate programs we offer in the University Catalog. Some certificates must be pursued concurrently while pursuing a degree. If you are currently enrolled in a degree program at CSULB and are interested in pursuing a certificate along with your degree, please consult with your Academic Advisor. If you are a master’s or doctoral student and you are interested in pursuing a certificate along with your degree, there may be an opportunity for courses to apply to both the degree and certificate programs (if permitted by the program), but such overlap may not exceed 15 units. Consult with your academic department for details. Select “standalone” certificate programs can be pursued independently as a post-baccalaureate student. If you have completed your bachelor’s degree and are interested in pursuing a “standalone” certificate as a post-baccalaureate student, please review the admission requirements and application procedures below. How do I qualify for admission to a post-baccalaureate certificate program? To qualify for admission to a “standalone” certificate program as a post-baccalaureate student, you must meet general university admission requirements as well as any professional, personal, scholastic or other standards as prescribed by the program. The minimum university admission requirements for post-baccalaureate consideration are: Complete a four-year college course of study and hold an acceptable baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution by the end of the summer term prior to Fall enrollment or the end of the Fall semester for Spring enrollment. Be in good standing at the last college or university you attended. Meet the minimum GPA requirements for admission to the university. This can be met in any of the following ways: Hold an advanced degree Hold a baccalaureate degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5. Hold a baccalaureate degree with a GPA of at least 2.5 in the last 60 semester or 90 quarter units you attempted, excluding lower-division and/or extension coursework attempted after the baccalaureate degree. Students in the process of completing a baccalaureate degree may be admitted on a provisional basis, subject to proof of degree completion, if their cumulative GPA is at least 2.7 or if the GPA in their last 60 semester or 90 quarter units are calculated at a 2.5 or higher. An official transcript showing degree completion must be submitted or the offer of admission will be withdrawn. Review the University Catalog and department website for information about the program requirements. What is the application deadline? The application period for spring admission begins on August 1, and the application period for fall admission begins on October 1. Not all certificate programs are open for admission each spring or fall term, and application deadlines vary by program. Visit the department website for more information. How do I apply for a post-baccalaureate certificate? When you are ready to apply, visit Cal State Apply to submit the university admission application and pay the $70 nonrefundable application fee online by the application deadline for your program. Be sure to indicate in your online application that you are interested in a “Post-baccalaureate Certificate” in order to locate the program in Cal State Apply. Be aware that the CSU does not offer application fee waivers for post-baccalaureate certificate applicants. CSULB graduates or candidates must reapply to the University under the same conditions and deadlines as all other applicants. We will send you a notification by email to acknowledge receipt of your application. Students may only be considered for one application per academic term and will only be considered for the program for which they initially applied. Please submit one set of official transcripts from each college or university you have attended. Only one set of official transcripts is required, and they must be submitted to Enrollment Services. Official transcripts may be submitted electronically directly from a U.S. college or university to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts may also be sent in a sealed envelope to the following address: Enrollment Services/Admissions California State University, Long Beach 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Some programs require supplemental applications or information that must be submitted directly to the department. Check with the certificate program for specific information on these requirements. When will I be notified of the admission decision? The CSULB Admissions Office will review your university application and transcripts to verify your eligibility based on the minimum university admission requirements. If you meet these minimum requirements, your application will be forwarded to your academic program for review. You will receive notification of your admission status after the department has made their decision. CSULB uses email as the official means of communication, so applicants are required to maintain a current email address on file with the university and check their email regularly. You may update your email address or check the status of your admission application by visiting the Applicant Self-Service webpage. What is "provisional admission"? Post-baccalaureate certificate applicants may be offered admission on a provisional basis if certain requirements (such as the baccalaureate degree) are in progress at the time of admission. These requirements must be completed prior to enrollment in the program, and failure to meet these requirements will result in the rescission of the admission offer. If you were offered “provisional admission,” you must submit to Enrollment Services a final official transcript showing the conferral date for your baccalaureate degree as follows: If you were offered provisional admission for the spring semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than January 15. If you were offered provisional admission for the fall semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than August 15. After receipt of the final transcript, the admission decision will be audited to ensure all requirements have been met. If the requirements have not been met, you will receive notification that the offer of admission has been rescinded. Students will be allowed to enroll for classes prior to receipt of the transcript; however, if proof of degree completion is not received by the deadline, classes will be administratively dropped. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111