https://www.csulb.edu/college-of-health-human-services College of Health & Human Services | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content College of Health & Human Services Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu CHHS Home About Dean's Welcome Administration & Staff Employment Opportunities Contact CHHS Our Mission & Vision Statement Core Values CSULB No Barriers Optimizing Collective Impact Support CHHS Ways to Support CHHS Give the Gift of Education Dean's Fund For Excellence Departments/Schools Schools School of Criminology, Criminal Justice, & Emergency Management School of Nursing School of Social Work Family & Consumer Sciences Health Care Administration Health Science Public Health Informatics & Technology Kinesiology Physical Therapy Public Policy & Administration Recreation & Leisure Studies Speech-Language Pathology Centers CHHS Academic Advising Military Science/ROTC Center for Criminal Justice Research & Training Child Development & Family Studies Center for Latino Community Health Center for Successful Aging Child & Family Center LifeFit Center After School Adapted Physical-Activity Programs Camp Nugget Japanese Garden Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Sport Training and Research Clinics Speech and Language Pathology Clinic PT @ The Beach Health on Wheels Students Resources COVID-19 Information Careers Career Options Undergraduate Advising Important Contacts Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Scholarship Opportunities Student Organizations Beach Buddy CHHS Student Leaders Alumni Faculty & Staff Administration Staff Beach 2030 Brand Central COVID-19 FAQ Job Opportunities Faculty Equity Advocates Faculty Governance Representatives Faculty Professional Development Public Health Informatics & Technology This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Helping people live happier, healthier and safer lives... Helping people live happier, healthier and safer lives... See More CHHS Partnership CHHS Partnership Gift allows CSULB Speech-Language Clinic to continue to impact the community Read More Early Intervention Early Intervention New CHHS program sends students to middle schools to address mental health crisis Read More Welcome to the OutBAC Welcome to the OutBAC What can you do with a Recreation and Leisure Studies major? Watch Video CHHS Wavemakers: Hospitality Management alum opens… CHHS Wavemakers: Hospitality Management alum opens restaurant Jason Cervantes is a rising star in the culinary world and got his degree with CSULB’s hospitality management program Read More CHHS Wavemakers: Dr. Robert Schug CHHS Wavemakers: Dr. Robert Schug Professor Schug discusses his illustrious criminology career and how he became a forensic psychologist Read More About Dean's Welcome Administration & Staff Employment Opportunities Contact CHHS Our Mission & Vision Statement Core Values CSULB No Barriers Optimizing Collective Impact Executive Summary Support CHHS Ways to Support CHHS Give the Gift of Education Dean's Fund For Excellence Apply Now! Explore CHHS Careers Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Beach Road Map: Explore Resources and Plan your Path Financial Aid and Scholarships Advising Office Health & Wellness Resources College of Health & Human Services Facebook College of Health & Human Services Twitter College of Health & Human Services Instagram College of Health & Human Services YouTube College of Health & Human Services LinkedIn Office of the Dean College of Health and Human Services, ET-200 California State University, Long Beach 1250 Bellflower Boulevard Long Beach, California 90840 Phone: 562.985.4194 Parking Campus day parking passes can be purchased at dispenser in Lot G14 Building ET-200 is located on the East side in front of Lot E6 Campus location from a Google map perspective Maps CSULB Map CSULB Home College of Health & Human Services Welcome to the College of Health and Human Services! The College of Health and Human Services is about people and helping them to live happier, healthier and safer lives. Image The College of Health & Human Services (CHHS) accounts for approximately 25% of the student enrollment of our nationally-leading student-centered university. CHHS degrees provide a quality, hands-on education that prepare students for careers upon graduation. Full-time undergraduate students can graduate within four years and graduate degrees can often be earned in two or less years. Our faculty are nationally and internationally renowned for research and were prepared in the world's most prestigious institutions including our own highly rated UCs as well as Oxford, Stanford, and Harvard. CHHS Faculty are passionate educators and their classes are designed to provide practical learning experiences. Most students complete field work and/or internships as part of their degree program. Under the leadership of Dean Monica Lounsbery, CHHS is driving educational innovation to advance transformational learning through interdisciplinary collaborations and community partnerships. Departments and Degree Options Peruse the array of degree programs we offer across our eight departments and three schools. Click on the tab for each department to learn about the degree programs offered, their associated career fields, and the median annual wages individuals earn in those fields. Criminology, Criminal Justice and Emergency Management (CCJEM) The School of Criminology, Criminal Justice and Emergency Management (CCJEM) offers degree programs for both undergraduate and graduate candidates that prepare students to work in a variety of fields including: law enforcement, the courts, community and correctional institutions, and disaster recovery services. The criminal justice career sector is among the fastest growing in the United States. Learn more. Students who puruse this degree have a passion for helping make communities safer by preventing, discovering, and investigating crimes and leading disaster recovery efforts. Median annual wages: Image “Ever since I was in kindergarten, I wanted to be a part of the criminal justice system. Through the years, I have been interested in many careers pertaining to the field (law enforcement, lawyer, judge, bailiff). I will pursue a career within federal law enforcement and ensure the safety of the public, our families, and our country." - Onora Hatchette, Criminal Justice Major Criminologist (Sociologist), advanced degree required: $115,330 CA, $101,770 US Corrections and Bailiffs: $85,770 CA, $53,000 US Crime Scene Investigator/Forensic Technician: $98,400 CA, $64,690 US Police and Detectives: $111,770 CA, $74,910 US Work environments: Police and sheriff’s patrol officers, detectives and investigators, fish and game wardens, transit and railroad police Probation and Parole Officers: $102,230 CA, $61,800 US Emergency Managers: $131,580 CA, $83,960 US Family and Consumer Sciences (FCS) The Department of Family and Consumer Sciences (FCS) offers degree programs for undergraduate and graduate candidates that prepare students to work in a variety of fields including: child and family studies, consumer affairs, family life education, fashion design, fashion merchandising, food science, nutrition and dietetics, gerontology, and hospitality management. Students who pursue a degree in Family and Consumer Sciences have a passion for improving the lives of others by providing educational, preventative, and enrichment services in the community: Learn more Image "Being a child development and family studies major has opened up a lot of doors for me. My goal is to get my master's degree and become a high school counselor." -Natalie, Child Development Major Median annual wage for Hospitality Management workers: Image "I chose this career path because I have always been passionate about food and I decided to pursue a Hospitality Management degree because I wanted to have the opportunity to do what I love and get paid for it." Kevin Cooper, Hospitality Management Major Foodservice: $54,240 CA Lodging: $57,390 CA Meeting, Convention, and Event Planners: $49,370 US According to Payscale, the annual salary range for a Director of Hospitality is $36k - $97k plus bonuses ranging from $2k - $12k. Regional and corporate management positions have higher levels of salary depending on the scope of responsibilities. Median annual wage for Fashion Merchandising & Design workers: Buying and Purchasing Agents: $84,360 CA, $71,950 US Purchasing Managers: $159,470 CA, $136,380 US Retail Buyer: $59,300 CA Store / Retail Operations Manager: $155,170 Fashion product developer: $94,000 CA Fashion Event Planner: $69,280 CA Global Supply Chain Manager: $119,250 CA Social Media Specialist / Strategist: $100,040 CA Fashion Marketing / Branding / Public Relations Specialist: $87,770 CA E-commerce Manager: $102,840 CA Fashion/Apparel Designer: $79,290 US Pattern maker: $70,600 CA Costume designer: $70,390 CA Fashion illustrator: $114,000 CA Fashion product developer: $94,000 CA Median annual wage for Consumer Affairs workers: Retail $34,000 Financial Counselor $100,000 Financial Services, Banking, and Lending $70,000 Housing and Real Estate $56,000 Consumer Relations $40,000 Consumer Journalist $58,000 Median annual wage for Child and Family Development workers: Childcare providers: $38,000-$48,000 (Salary.com) Preschool teachers: $38,850-$50,000 (Salary.com) PK-3 teachers (requires post-baccalaureate PK-3 credential): $93,880 CA, $70,790 US Salary can range across private, public and nonprofit sectors Salary is often based on education and experience Median annual wage for Nutrition and Dietetics workers: Dietitians and Nutritionists (Master’s degree needed): $84,560 CA, $69,680 US CSULB Nutrition Graduate Program Median annual wage for Gerontology workers: The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports job growth in several occupations related to gerontology. For instance, employment of medical and health service managers is projected to grow 9% over the period from 2022-2032, which is much faster than the average for all national occupations. Gerontology is the fastest growing domain of the healthcare industry with expected job growth in the fields of medicine, allied health care, long term care in facilities and private homes, and preventive health fields such as fitness and wellness, recreation, leisure, and retirement housing. According to Payscale (2024) the average salary of a Gerontologist is $100,000 Health Care Management (HCM) The Department of Health Care Management offers degree programs for both undergraduate and graduate candidates which prepare students to work in the business side of health care. Health care administrators have a passion for creating and implementing policies and procedures, supervising staff, managing finances, and maintaining records to improve health care services. Students who pursue this degree often have the highest paying jobs after finishing college. Learn more. Image "It wasn’t until I started taking on a lot of administrative roles in my medical assistant job that I began thinking about the administrative and business side of health care. It really opened my eyes to what I could do. So I applied to this program here at CSULB, and began seeing how my degree would apply to the real world. I learned that I could still make an impactful difference in health care moving from the clinical side to the administration side." -Kiely Gode, Health Care Management Major Median annual wage for Health Care Administration workers: Medical and Health Services Managers: $156,140 CA, $110,680 US Health Science (HSC) The Department of Health Science offers degree programs for both undergraduate and graduate candidates. Health Science professionals help increase access to health services and provide health education in both community and school settings. Health Science workers have a passion for conducting research and educating people in their community to prevent health issues and promote wellness. Students who pursue their degree in Health Science often find jobs working in hospitals, local and county health departments and agencies and in schools. Learn more Median annual wage for Community Health Science workers: Image “As a future epidemiologist, I intend to utilize my HIV/AIDS research to assist in creating public health initiatives that aim to enhance treatment and prevention programs for underserved populations.” Marco Reyes, Health Science Major Health Education Specialists: $76,460 CA, $62,860 US Median annual wage for School Health Education workers: Kindergarten and Elementary School Teachers: $93,880 CA, $63,670 US Middle and High School Teachers: $95,860 CA, $65,220 US Kinesiology (KIN) The Department of Kinesiology offers degree programs for both undergraduate and graduate candidates that prepare students for work in a variety of areas including athletic training, fitness, exercise science, physical education, adapted physical education, and in numerous work settings related to the sports industry. Students who pursue their Kinesiology degree have a passion for helping others achieve fitness and health goals, and play a vital role in gymns, clinics, hospitals, sports teams and schools. Learn more Median annual wage for Athletic trainers/Sport Psychology Leadership: Fitness trainers and instructors: $61,340 CA, $46,480 US Coaches and Scouts: $65,560 CA, $45,910 US Psychologists (requires advanced degree): $132,410 CA, $92,740 US Higher education (Masters or PhD) is required for those seeking to work with athletes in non-clinical mental skills settings. For clinical practice, students need to earn a PhD or PsyD: These higher degree programs will allow for the necessary fieldwork/experience. Median annual wage for Exercise Science Professionals: Image "I chose Athletic Training to help athletes perform at their best and educate them on a lifetime of healthy practices." Randy Nguyen, Athletic Training Major Exercise physiologists: $49,700 CA, $54,860 US Physical therapist (requires doctoral degree): $114,270 CA, $99,710 US Starting Median annual wage for Physical Education/Adapted Physical Education teachers: $57,129-$66,234 High School Teachers: $90,790 CA, $65,910 US Nursing (NUR) The School of Nursing (SON) has degree programs for both undergraduate and graduate candidates that prepare students to work in a variety of clinical positions including: Emergency Department Registered Nurses (RNs), Oncology RNs, school nurses and public health nurses. Students who pursue their degree in nursing have a passion for providing and coordinating patient health care. Not only do they educate patients and their families about health conditions, but they also provide much needed emotional support. Nurses are committed to maintaining health and preventing illness. Learn More Median annual wages Image “It is completely surreal to be where I am today and could not have asked for a better alma mater. “I would not be where I am today if it weren’t for the friends that I have met and the staff and faculty that have supported me throughout my entire journey." - Emily Tran, Nursing Major Registered Nurses: $137,690 CA, $86,070 US Nurse Anesthetists, Nurse Midwives, and Nurse Practitioners: $161,540 CA, $129,480 US Physical Therapy (PT) The Department of Physical Therapy (PT) offers the Doctorate in Physical Therapy (DPT) degree. Suggested undergraduate degree for this pathway is a Kinesiology degree (see above). Students who pursue their degree in physical therapy have a passion for helping people with injuries and health conditions, improving their movement and reducing pain. Physical therapists are highly-educated healthcare professionals who diagnose, treat and prevent mobility problems. Learn more Median annual wage for Physical Therapists: Image "I saw physical therapy as the perfect career for me and I think the best part about it, is that it teaches us a lot about the journey to self-improvement and self-healing." David Nguyen, Physical Therapy Major Physical therapist (requires doctoral degree): $114,270 CA, $99,710 US Graduate Center for Public Policy and Administration (GCPPA) The Graduate Center for Public Policy and Administration (GCPPA) offers the master's degree in Public administration, along with 3 graduate certificates. Students who pursue their graduate degree in Public Policy and Administration have a passion for making a large impact on the community. Public administrators lead and manage public, community-based and non-profit organizations. Learn more Median annual wage for Public Administrators: Image “From helping at food pantries to volunteering in local events, I have dedicated my life to serve my community. I am planning on using all the knowledge gained from my MPA program to continue helping disenfranchised communities to have voice in government and access to resources." Luis Gonzalez, Public Policy Major CA: $72,000 US: $60,000 Recreation and Leisure Studies (RLS) The Department of Recreation and Leisure Studies (RLS) (undergraduate and graduate) offers degree programs in Recreation Management and Recreation Therapy which prepare students for work in parks, sports facilities, community centers and other institutions. Students who pursue their degree in Recreation and Leisure Studies have a passion for overseeing recreational programs and working in the community. They also provide meaningful support in their communities by planning, coordinating, and directing recreation-based treatment programs for people with disabilities, injuries, or other health concerns. Median annual wage for Recreation Management professionals: Image “You can work in parks, tourism, government, non-profit agencies, outdoor adventure recreation – so many different areas you could go into with this degree program.” Stephanie Brasovean, Recreation Major Park and Recreation Agency Director: $123,000 Planning Director: $106,500 Director of Finance: $100,245 Recreation Director: $90,000 Park Operations Director: $85,000 Park Operations: $65,952 Facilites Manager: $70,000 Athletics Supervisor: $60,347 Aquatics Supervisor: $64,500 Recreation Programs Coordinator: $58,000 Marketing and Communications Director: $70,000 Fitness Center Manager: $60,181 Administrative Assistant: $47,840 Recreation supervisors: $53,710 CA Recreation coordinator: $60,000 – 95,000 CA Recreation director: $175,000 – 211,000 CA Wages vary with job location and level of experience Median annual wage for Recreation Therapy professionals Recreation therapists: $89,660 CA, $57,120 US Social Work (SW) The School of Social Work (SW) has 3 degree pathways for both undergraduate and graduate candidates that prepare students for a variety of settings in the social work field. Students who pursue their degree in Social Work have a passion for enhancing the well-being of vulnerable populations and disadvantaged communities. Social workers provide meaningful service to the community as practitioners, leaders, and social justice advocates. Learn more Median annual wage for Social Workers: Image “I hope to serve my community by continuing to break down the stigma associated with mental health, advocating for women’s rights, and finding creative ways to meet the needs of underserved populations.” Angela Dominguez, Social Work Major Social Workers: $69,340 CA, $58,380 US Licensed Clinical Social Workers: $93,200 CA Speech-Language Pathology (SLP) The Department of Speech-Language Pathology (SLP) offers degree programs for undergraduate and graduate candidates that prepare students to work in a variety of clincial settings that help people with communication disorders. Students who pursue their degree in Speech-Language Pathology have a passion for working to prevent, assess, diagnose, and treat speech, language, social communication, cognitive-communication, and swallowing disorders in children and adults (American Speech-language-Hearing Association). Speech Language Pathologists also provide services to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and individuals with severe and multiple disabilities by using all forms of augmentative and alternative communication. SLPs work with clients with various communication disorders across different severities and their caregivers/family members from diverse backgrounds. SLPs also work collaboratively with professionals from other disciplines in different settings. Learn more Median annual wage for Speech Language Pathologists: Image "From a young age, I recognized the pivotal role that speech, language, and communication play in fostering meaningful connections and relationships. I truly feel as though the decision to pursue speech pathology was a calling rather than a choice. After I learned about this field, I became captivated by the notion of empowering others to overcome communication barriers and enhance their quality of life." Jasmine Hogan, Speech Language Pathology Major Speech-Language Pathologists (graduate school required): $112,030 CA, $89,290 US Average salaries for Speech Language assistants with a bachelor's degree who work in Speech Language Pathology offices: $35-45/hour Image Grace Reynolds-Fisher, Ph.D. Interim Dean of the College of Health & Human Services Read the Dean's Welcome Message Image Share an update or achievement Read about CHHS Interdisciplinary and Community work: Gift allows CSULB Speech-Language Clinic to Continue to Impact Community New CHHS Program Sends Students into Middle Schools to Address Mental Health Crisis 2 CHHS Professors, who are brothers, provide virtual healthcare to Iranian Protesters CHHS Teams up with College of Education for Hospitality Management Wine Event Read about some of our incredible students! CSULB 1st Gen Students Primed to Pursue Their Doctorate Social Work Student Rallies for Policy Change Health Care Administration student receives City of Hope Fellowship Read about some of our amazing faculty and staff! Nutrition & Dietetics Professor Honored for Her Outstanding Contributions Criminology Professor Dr. Robert Schug - A Rockstar of His Profession Read about some of our successful CHHS alumni! Fashion Merchandising and Design Alum Designs for Barbie! A Day in the Life of a CSULB Nursing Grad Hospitality Management alum opens popular restaurant CHHS Grad Attends Disney Imagination Campus 50 Teachers Celebration More Articles What does a CHHS Degree Look Like? Image Register for Peer Mentoring Services Join Beach Buddy on BeachSync to RSVP for workshops and sessions. Save your spot today! Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111