https://www.csulb.edu/college-of-liberal-arts College of Liberal Arts | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu College of Liberal Arts CLA Home About the College Dean's Message Administration and Staff CLA Annual Budget Reports Departments and Centers Departments and Programs Centers and Institutes Employment Opportunities Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Open Student Positions Graduate Studies CLA Alumni Giving to CLA CLA Faculty Council My CLA Academics Undergraduate Studies CLA Academic Undergraduate Majors CLA Academic Undergraduate Minors Graduate Studies Certificate Programs Continuing Education Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Arts Degree Completion Program Master of Science in Geographic Information Science Master of Arts in International Studies Departments and Programs Student Success Internships Research Opportunities ASI Student Research Fund Study Abroad Advising/ATLAS Common Read Beach Pluralism Project Languages at the Beach Resources BeachBoard Help CLA Advising/ATLAS College of Professional and Continuing Education Commencement Help (Key Services) ASI Beach Pantry Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Disabled Student Services Dream Success Center - AB 540 Emergency Intervention and Wellness Program Network of Wellness (NOW) Not Alone @ The Beach Office of Equality and Compliance Office of the Title IX Coordinator Student Health Services MyCLA (Faculty and Staff Use Only) Registration Information Safety Crime Statistics Emergency Guidelines Schedule of Classes Scholarship Opportunities Student Orientation, Advising and Registration (SOAR) University Writing Center Calendar Contact CLA Home About the College Dean's Message Administration and Staff CLA Annual Budget Reports Departments and Centers Departments and Programs Centers and Institutes Employment Opportunities Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Open Student Positions Graduate Studies CLA Alumni Giving to CLA CLA Faculty Council My CLA Feb 13 Atopic Futures: Waste, Death, and Other Worlds Mar 7 Cross Modality Interpreting- Betty M. Colonomos and Madeline Rios Mar 16 Dee Abrahamse Memorial Concert CSULB Home College of Liberal Arts This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Remembering Dee Abrahamse, first CLA Dean Image Dorothy “Dee” de Ferranti Abrahamse,… Classics Chair Awarded $500K NSF Grant with CNSM colleagues Image Classics chair and professor Paul… CLA Commencement Photos On behalf of the CLA Dean’s Office, we congratulate our students on a job well done! We wish you… Alessandro Russo Selected as the Recipient of the 2023-24 Staff Council Outstanding Staff Award Alessandro has contributed to the CSULB campus in many different roles, including as an… Faculty Publications: English - 2024 Carlile, Susan. “‘Before I am Quite Forgot’: Women’s Critical Literary Biography and the Future.”… Faculty Publications: Political Science - 2024 Mary Caputi, David Riesman and Critical Theory: Autonomy versus Emancipation, co-authored with… Faculty Publications: Women's Gender & Sexuality Studies - 2024 Baralt, Lori. “Bridging Disciplinary Divides: Facilitating Participatory Feminist Community in… More News Discover the College of Liberal Arts The College of Liberal Arts at CSULB is the largest college on campus, with thirty-one excellent departments and programs, several innovative centers and projects, over 685 outstanding faculty members, and over 74 individual staff members. The college faculty are among the best in the nation and have received a variety of national and international awards. CLA has 9300 undergraduate students pursuing a variety of highly valued degrees through the college’s 99 unique majors and minors. Additionally, 575 graduate students are also obtaining advanced degrees and special certificates in the college. With degrees ranging from humanities and foreign languages to social and behavioral sciences, CLA’s graduates are well-rounded citizens, effective communicators, and analytical thinkers who live knowledgeably, responsibly, and humanely in a world where complex problems demand informed, creative, and thoughtful solutions. The skills gained through degrees from CLA are invaluable and open up countless career paths for graduates to follow. The College of Liberal Arts will be the educational focal point for connecting Long Beach State University with the city of Long Beach, the broader Southern California region, and the world. Our students will receive the skills, training, experiences and sense of purpose that are needed to be thoughtful citizens in an uncertain world and community builders who can bridge all sectors of society. Contact Us College of Liberal Arts Dean’s Office Phone: 562.985.5381 Postal Mail: College of Liberal Arts California State University, Long Beach 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, California 90840 Email: cla@csulb.edu Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111