https://www.csulb.edu/academic-affairs/colleges-departments Colleges & Departments | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Academic Affairs Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Academic Calendar Academic Affairs Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Academic Programs Curriculum Articulation Program and Institution Effectiveness Credit for Prior Learning Academic Planning Planning and Resources Data Fellows Academic Senate Academic Technology Assessment Faculty Affairs International Education and Global Engagement Office of Research and Economic Development Colleges Related Offices Institutional Research and Analytics Information about Enrollment Services Long Beach Community Internship Program Academic Resources Office of the Provost CSULB Home Academic Affairs Colleges & Departments Colleges & Departments College of the Arts (COTA) Dean: Royce W. Smith Location: AS-115 Email: cota@csulb.edu The College of the Arts provides an environment for individual creative and academic achievement in the areas of visual arts, performing arts, cinematic storytelling, and design. Curriculum and classroom experiences are strategically crafted to honor and acknowledge tradition, history, and the evolution of art and design forms while also encouraging unique, singular voices, disruption of norms, and innovative creativity. At the core of their mission is an appreciation of all cultures, art forms, and acknowledgement of their lasting value to the quality of life. The Carolyn Campagna Kleefeld Contemporary Art Museum and the Richard and Karen Carpenter Performing Arts Center are vital and important campus and community partners – allowing students, the larger campus, and greater Long Beach communities access to world class experiences. The college is a regional resource for arts and cultural events, showcases, guest lectures, and accessible, innovative artistic expression. Programs: Bob Conservatory School of Music Dance Design Film and Electronic Arts School of Art Theatre Arts College of Business (COB) Dean: Mark Suazo Location: COB-200 Contact: cba-communications@csulb.edu The College of Business is one of 711 business schools out of nearly 16,000 world-wide that are accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International. Faculty and staff are committed to excellence in education, diversity, inclusion, and sustainability. The college’s continuous accreditation since 1972 remains a testimony to its team’s hard work and dedication. More notably, it offers the Bachelor of Science (BS) in Business Administration with eight options, seven undergraduate minors, four Master of Business Administration programs, and four Master of Science (MS) degrees. Programs: Accountancy Finance Human Resource Management Information Systems International Business Legal Business Studies Management Marketing Supply Chain Management College of Education (CED) Dean: Anna Ortiz Location: EED-1 Contact: cedinfo@csulb.edu The College of Education provides undergraduate and graduate studies in education. It offers specific curricula focusing on the preparation of personnel for teaching and educational service in the pre-school, elementary, middle and high schools, community colleges, adult programs, and other educational agencies. In addition to three certificate programs and a variety of teaching and service credentials, the college offers a Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies, a Master of Arts in Education with various options, two Master of Science degrees in special education and counseling, and the Educational Leadership Doctorate. Programs: Advanced Studies in Education and Counseling Educational Leadership Liberal Studies Teacher Education College of Engineering (COE) Dean: Jinny Rhee Location: ECS-610 Contact: coe-info@csulb.edu The College of Engineering provides undergraduate and graduate studies in engineering and computer science. Its curricula covers a broad range of disciplines and provides applied, hands-on learning that prepares students for working in the field and continuing academic work. Across six departments, the college offers 11 Bachelor of Science programs, as well as a Master of Science in aerospace, civil, computer, electrical and mechanical engineering, construction management, and computer science. The college also has a PhD program in Engineering and Computational Mathematics, which is jointly offered with Claremont Graduate University. Programs: Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering & Construction Management Computer Engineering & Computer Science Electrical Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering College of Health & Human Services (CHHS) Dean: Grace Reynolds-Fisher Location: ET-200 Contact: Nora.Ortiz@csulb.edu The College of Health & Human Services accounts for approximately 25% of the student enrollment of our nationally leading student-centered university. CHHS degrees provide a quality, hands-on education that prepares students for careers upon graduation. Full-time undergraduate students can graduate within four years and graduate degrees can often be earned in two years or less. Our faculty are nationally and internationally renowned for research and come prepared from the world's most prestigious institutions including our own highly rated UCs as well as Oxford, Stanford, and Harvard. CHHS faculty are passionate educators, and their classes are designed to provide practical learning experiences. Most students complete field work and/or internships as part of their degree program. Under the leadership of Dean Dr. Monica Lounsbery, CHHS is driving educational innovation to advance transformational learning through interdisciplinary collaborations and community partnerships. Programs: Family and Consumer Sciences Health Care Administration Health Science Kinesiology School of Nursing Physical Therapy Public Policy and Administration Recreation and Leisure Studies School of Criminology, Criminal Justice and Emergency Management School of Nursing School of Social Work Speech-Language Pathology College of Liberal Arts (CLA) Dean: Deborah Thien Location: College of Liberal Arts Administration Contact: cla@csulb.edu The College of Liberal Arts is CSULB’s largest college on campus, with 31 excellent departments and programs, several innovative centers, projects, over 685 outstanding faculty members, and over 74 individual staff members. The college faculty are among the best in the nation and have received a variety of national and international awards. CLA has 9,300 undergraduate students pursuing a variety of highly valued degrees through the college’s 99 unique majors and minors. Additionally, 575 graduate students are also obtaining advanced degrees and special certificates in the college. With degrees ranging from humanities and foreign languages to social and behavioral sciences, CLA’s graduates are well-rounded citizens, effective communicators, and analytical thinkers who live knowledgeably, responsibly, and humanely. The invaluable skills gained through CLA’s degrees open countless career paths for graduates to follow. Programs: Africana Studies American Indian Studies American Studies Anthropology Asian and Asian American Studies ASLD Chicano & Latino Studies Classics Communication Studies Comparative World Literature Economics English Environmental Science and Policy Geography History Human Development International Studies Jewish Studies Journalism and Public Relations Latin America Studies Legal Studies Linguistics Philosophy Political Science Psychology Religious Studies Romance, German, Russian Languages, and Literatures Sociology Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics (CNSM) Dean: Curtis Bennett Location: HSCI-160 Contact: cnsm@csulb.edu The College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics is a national leader in integrating student research experiences with education. Their faculty’s cutting-edge research informs instruction and inquiry-based labs, develops understanding of the scientific method, and leads to student excellence. The college seeks to educate and mentor the next diverse generation of scientists and mathematicians. It also aims to establish a science-literate citizenry through inclusive teaching and research incorporated into its bachelor, master, and certificate programs. Programs: Biological Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry Earth Science Environmental Science and Policy Mathematics and Statistics Physics and Astronomy Science Education College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Dean: Chris Swarat Location: FND-104 Contact: cpace-info@csulb.edu The College of Professional and Continuing Education offers a diverse range of degrees, professional development certificates, and international education opportunities to enrich the lives of CSULB students. Working closely with our campus, business, community, and international partners, CPaCE serves California’s workforce and economy by offering new and innovative pathways for students to achieve success. Programs: Certifications Online bachelor's degrees Online master’s degrees Personal Enrichment Professional Designation Professional Development University Credit University Library Dean: Elizabeth Dill Location: LIB-402 Contact: LIB-Administration@csulb.edu The University Library supports CSULB’s educational mission of selecting, organizing, preserving, and disseminating recorded knowledge in all its formats and manifestations. The library supports the instructional and research needs of the campus community through its breadth and depth of collections, exceptional library faculty and staff-led services, and innovative use of spaces. The library is a leader in the delivery of digital content and in marshaling technology to facilitate scholarly inquiry. Image Current CSULB Student Catalog CSULB Catalog Archives If you should experience any problems or have comments or suggestions, please send an e-mail to CSULB Curriculum Office. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111