https://www.csulb.edu/college-of-natural-sciences-and-mathematics College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu CNSM CNSM Home Commencement 2025 Commencement Awards Inclusive Excellence News Events Safety Giving About the College Students Prospective Students Academic Advising Tutoring Jensen SAS Center Health Professions Advising Student Research Scholarships and Funded Support Additional Resources Poster Printing Resilience Project Thrive - Skill Building Workshops Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry Earth Science Mathematics and Statistics Physics and Astronomy Science Education Environmental Science and Policy Research Resources Forms and Documents Science Safety Office Technical Support Services Science Shop Services Room and Equipment Reservations Faculty Mentoring Centers IIRMES Jensen SAS Center National Center for Science in Early Childhood Science Learning Center Connect Contact CNSM College Directory Jobs Volunteer Alumni Fellows CNSM Home Commencement 2025 Commencement Awards Inclusive Excellence News Events Safety Giving About the College Make a Gift College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Facebook College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Instagram College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics LinkedIn Feb 13 Research Programs Info Session (virtual) Mar 7 37th Annual CSULB Student Research Competition Mar 11 BeachScholarships Deadline CSULB Home College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Catching Up with Shawn Austria and the Beach Pluralism Project In Fall 2024, CSULB launched the Beach Pluralism Project in an effort to promote constructive… Summer Science Camp Gets Boost from Local Foundation A massive thank you to Long Beach Community Foundation! CNSM's Young Scientists Camp (YSC) recently… Immersive Experience Shines Light on Sand Dollar Lifecycle In the ISPACE 360° Theater, visitors were guided through an immersive and interactive science… New Faculty in 2024-2025 The College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics is proud to welcome 6 new faculty members to our… From Whale Bones to Rocket Science, 3D Printing Transforms Student Research Biology Professor Ted Stankowich utilized 3D printing to give his students a hands-on anatomy… CSULB and California Resources Corporation Combine Forces to Save Coastal Environments The California Resources Corporation and CNSM have teamed up to create the Urban Coast Fund and… CNSM Faculty Awarded $4.2M NSF Grant for Materials Science Research and Education CSULB faculty have been awarded a 6-year $4.2M grant from the NSF's Partnership for Research and… More News Natural Sciences and Mathematics Leading the Way in Student Research The College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics is a national leader in integrating undergraduate research and education. Our faculty research informs student instruction and inquiry-based labs, develops student understanding of the scientific method, and creates student excellence in science and math learning. The College's vision is to educate the next diverse generation of scientists and mathematicians, as well as a science-literate citizenry, through inclusive teaching and research programs within the departments of Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Earth Science, Mathematics and Statistics, Physics and Astronomy, Science Education, and the Environmental Science and Policy program. See our mission statement. Undergraduate Research Info Sessions Want to do research but don't know how to get involved? At CSULB we have research programs that are designed to help students get hands-on research experiences and be mentored by professors in your major. Join an info session to learn more! February 5, 2025 at 5:00pm February 13, 2025 at 5:00pm Free Math and Science Tutoring The Jensen SAS Center offers free tutoring in math and science courses. Tutoring for the Spring semester starts on February 3, 2025. View tutoring schedule. Virtual Tour Find out what life is like on campus, and what science and math students can experience in the classroom, in the lab, and in the field. Launch Experience Contact CNSM College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Email: cnsm@csulb.edu Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111