https://www.csulb.edu/college-of-the-arts College of the Arts | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content College of the Arts Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu College of the Arts About College of the Arts Deans Office Contacts Frequently Asked Questions Mission and Vision News Academics Contacts for College Departments and Advising Departments Program Learning Outcomes Events Departments Art Cinema Dance Design Music Theatre Carpenter Performing Arts Center Kleefeld Contemporary Student Resources Advising SOAR Internships Scholarships Student Life Student Organizations Student Opportunities Support Alumni Donors Funding Opportunities College of the Arts For All Video 2024 CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY CERAMICS Academic Faculty and Student Employment Opportunities MyCOTA (Faculty and Staff Use Only) Safety College of the Arts Facebook College of the Arts Twitter College of the Arts Instagram CSULB Home College of the Arts This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. CSULB Design Student Wins Toyota Logistics Challenge 2024 CSULB Industrial Design student Simon Lavender Won the Toyota Logistic Design Competition in the… College Administrative Office Entrance Gets a Refresh College Administrative Office Entrance Gets a Refresh Bob Cole Conservatory Wind Symphony in Washington, D.C. In March 2024 the CSULB Bob Cole Conservatory of Music Wind Symphony traveled to Washington, D.C… Two CSULB Students KCET Fine Cut Finalists A short film from the Creative Non-Fiction program in the Film & Electronic Arts Department and one… Center For Contemporary Ceramics Creating a Pathway to Yes for Students and Visiting Artists Greetings from the College of the Arts Dean Welcome to the College of the Arts at CSULB! Veteran Portrait Project Part of the Strong Bond Between 7th Street Neighbors Since 2018 Veterans from the nearby VA Medical Center have been sitting for portraits in School of… More News COLLEGE OF THE ARTS The College of the Arts (COTA) at California State University, Long Beach is a community. More than 3,000 majors and minors study within the College of the Arts, working with faculty, staff, and guest artists in the School of Art, the Bob Cole Conservatory of Music, and the departments of Cinematic Arts, Dance, Design, and Theatre Arts. Additionally, the Richard and Karen Carpenter Performing Arts Center and the Carolyn Campagna Kleefeld Contemporary Art Museum are valuable resources for the campus and Greater Long Beach region and are proudly part of the College of the Arts. Academically, COTA has more than 100 full-time and 150 part-time faculty members allowing the College to offer nationally-recognized, accredited degree programs including: Bachelor of Art Degrees in Art, Cinematic Arts, Dance, Design, Music, and Theatre Arts Bachelor of Fine Arts Degrees in Art, Dance, Interior Design, and Theatre Arts Bachelor of Science Degrees in Dance Science and Industrial Design Bachelor of Music Degrees Master of Fine Arts Degrees in Art, Dance, and Theatre Arts Master of Arts Degrees in Art, Dance, and Design Master of Music Degrees MFA/MBA in Theatre Management Post-Baccalaureate Art Certificates in Museum Studies and Biomedical Illustration Learning opportunities within the college reflect its commitment to the arts in all its forms. For students seeking a degree in the arts, COTA provides an environment designed for individual achievement in the context of a diverse, engaged community. Curriculum and classroom experiences are strategically crafted to honor and acknowledge tradition, history, and the evolution of art forms while also encouraging unique, singular voices, disruption of norms, and innovative creativity. At the core of our mission is an appreciation of all cultures and art forms, and acknowledgement of their lasting value to the quality of life. The Carolyn Campagna Kleefeld Contemporary Art Museum and the Richard and Karen Carpenter Performing Arts Center are vital and important campus and community partners - allowing students as well as the larger campus and Greater Long Beach communities access to world class arts experiences. The college as a whole is a regional resource for arts and cultural events, showcases, guest lectures, and accessible, innovative artistic expression. The CSULB College of the Arts Community Pledge in Support of Black Lives Matter As artists/educators/scholars/colleagues within the CSU System we accept the vital responsibility entrusted to us to create educational constructs for future members of the arts community. We prepare our students not only to explore and reconceive ideologies within their chosen disciplines, but through their art to shape, impact and remold our communities and culture. We acknowledge that our society is founded on a complex system of racism and anti-Blackness, which continues to disproportionately perpetuate negative outcomes for Black students, Black educators, and Black artists as well as indigenous people and people of color. The impact and damage of anti-Blackness in America, while increasingly visible in this moment, have been present for the past 400 years. The consequence of this systematic racism is that the unique and necessary achievements of Black people and people of color often go unrecognized, co-opted or muted. Black students, artists and educators are too often “othered” -- made to feel unwelcome, and unsupported. They find their work, their experiences, and their concerns trivialized or ignored in public university settings. This is wrong. Black students matter. Black artists matter. Black communities matter. Black educators matter. Black colleagues matter. Individually and as an organization, we are committed to actions that reinforce statements condemning anti-Black racism and its impact on the arts, art education, and society in general. We commit to doing the work that actively demonstrates that Black Lives Matter. We pledge to: Listen to and hear our Black colleagues, students, artists, and community members; recognize their experiences, and validate their concerns; Continue to work on unlearning the impact of anti-Blackness and racism in our own lives and practices by holding one another accountable for our actions and words; Acknowledge the privilege -unearned advantage- that exist for many of us and use it to advocate for and with our Black colleagues, students, artists, and community members; Support policies that advocate for social equality and intentionally work to diversify our staff and faculty Find ways to respect, highlight, and learn from the work of Black students, artists, and educators. Find ways to respect, highlight, and learn from the work of students, artists, and educators of color and communities that have been traditionally “othered.” By taking these initial steps, as individuals and as an organization, we can begin the work of dismantling anti-Black racism and oppression that exists in our communities, in our university, and in the arts in America. We pledge to elevate Black voices and the voices of people of color by recognizing their current and historic arts and cultural achievements, encouraging our students to explore artwork by Black artists and other people of color, and by hosting community dialogues regarding the future of the arts. We pledge to challenge anti-Black discourses and policies that continue to harm Black artists, Black students, Black educators, Black colleagues and, by extension, our society at large College of the Arts Events Each year the CSULB College of the Arts presents and produces more than 500 arts events open to the public. From weekly rotating art exhibitions showcased in more than seven gallery spaces dedicated to student work to world class performers appearing on the 1,000 Carpenter Performing Arts Center stage, from innovative and informative lectures, screenings, and artist talks to classic and contemporary music, dance, and theatre performances - arts lovers and supporters can find something for every taste and sensibility within the wide variety of offerings in any given week during the academic year. Explore our events: School of Art Events Cinematic Arts Events Dance Events Design Events Music Events Theatre Events Carolyn Campagna Kleefeld Contemporary Art Museum Events Carpenter Performing Arts Center Events CSULB College of the Arts Events and Programs Are Donor Supported Make a Gift Now Image Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111