https://www.csulb.edu/financial-aid-and-scholarships Financial Aid and Scholarships | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Financial Aid and Scholarships Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Undergrad Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid For Parents and Families of Undergraduates Newly Admitted Undergraduate Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Award Notification Getting Your Aid Keeping Your Aid Current Students Undergraduate Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Award Notification Getting Your Aid Keeping Your Aid Graduate Prospective Graduate Graduate Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Newly Admitted & Current Graduate Graduate Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Award Notification Getting Your Aid Keeping Your Aid Credential Prospective Credential Credential Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Newly Admitted Credential Credential Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Award Notification Getting Your Aid Keeping Your Aid Current Students Credential Credential Cost of Attendance Types of Aid How to Apply for Aid After You Apply for Aid Award Notification Getting Your Aid Keeping Your Aid Other Programs Additional Bachelor's Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education Cross Enrollment Scholarships Resources Campus Resources Cost of Attendance Financial Aid TV (Video Library) Financial Wellness Understanding Repeat Coursework and Aid Eligibility Understanding Return of Federal Aid due to Withdrawals Understanding Satisfactory Academic Progress Verification Contact This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Apply for Aid for 2025-2026 Apply for Aid for 2025-2026 Students can now submit aid applications to the U.S. Dept. of Education Get Started Explore BeachScholarships Explore BeachScholarships Learn about scholarship opportunities and deadlines Get Started You Can Still Apply for Aid for 2024-2025 You Can Still Apply for Aid for 2024-2025 How to Apply for Aid FATv FATv Have questions about Financial Aid? Visit FATv for answers Cost of Attendance How to Apply for Aid Using MyCSULB - Financial Aid Explore Scholarships Enrollment Services Forms Verification Resources Financial Aid Appeals Financial Aid TV (Video Library) Contact Financial Aid and Scholarships CSULB Home Financial Aid and Scholarships Financial Aid and Scholarships Image The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships at California State University, Long Beach serves all students and is ready to help you meet your financial and educational goals. Financial Aid Application: Visit our CSULB FAFSA Support page. Important Deadlines: Stay on top of important deadlines for enrollment, payments, aid applications, and more via Key Dates and Deadlines. SPRING 2025 NEWS: We will begin Spring 2025 Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) processing after Spring 2025 census, which is February 17, 2025. Processing includes disbursing, adjusting, and making initial awards for Spring 2025. Our estimated date for Spring 2025 MCS disbursement is March 10, 2025. However, please note, our processing period may take longer than anticipated. You do not have to take any action if you already have Spring 2025 MCS on your financial aid award. If you do not have Fall 2024 or Spring 2025 Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) on your financial aid award, please follow the steps below: Check your WebGrants 4 Students (WG4S) account to review your MCS eligibility. Click here for California Student Aid Commissions (CSAC) WebGrants 4 Students: How to Check Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) guide. If you have MCS eligibility on WebGrants, please wait until March 10, 2025 to contact our office. If you do not have MCS eligibility on WebGrants and believe you meet the MCS eligibility requirements, you can contact our office to inquire. There are many different types of aid available depending on where you are in your educational journey. Select your student category in the grey navigation menu at the top of the page to get started! You can also explore the resources in the left navigation menu for additional services. Need Support? Image Connect with the CSULB Financial Aid and Scholarships team by submitting a help ticket, making an appointment, or giving us a call through Beach Central. Financial Aid Walk-Ins: Intake Windows Brotman Hall, First Floor Courtyard Mon. - Fri. 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Financial Aid Phone Support: 562.985.5471 x4 Mon. - Thurs. 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Contact Us For Accessible Assistance: Explore the Bob Murphy Access Center Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111