https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/first-time-first-year-student-admission-eligibility First-Time, First-Year Student Admission Eligibility | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) First-Time, First-Year Student Application Process Eligibility Index Local Preference Admission Consideration Steps for Newly Admitted First-Time, First-Year Students CSULB Home Admissions First-Time, First-Year Student Admission Eligibility First-Time, First-Year Student Admission Eligibility CSULB accepts applications from entering first-time, first-year students (freshmen) each year from October 1 through December 2 for admission to the following fall semester. We receive applications from thousands of highly qualified applicants each year. First-time, first-year applicants must meet minimum CSULB eligibility requirements below to be considered. Students may only be considered for one application per academic year. Get started by reviewing the admission criteria below, and then find out how to apply. Who is considered a first-time, first-year student? You can apply to CSULB as a first-time, first-year student (freshman) if you have: not yet graduated high school, but are on track to graduate with a high school diploma by the spring term prior to fall enrollment. graduated high school, but have not taken college courses beyond the summer after graduation. What are the minimum CSULB eligibility requirements? To be considered for first-time, first-year admission to CSULB, you must meet the following minimum requirements: Complete each of the courses in the comprehensive pattern of college preparatory subject requirements with a grade of C or higher prior to high school graduation. Graduate from high school by the end of the spring term prior to fall enrollment. Have a minimum CSULB Index to be considered. The CSULB Index is the result of a formula that combines your achievement in high school college preparatory courses. Refer to CSULB Index for details of how this index is calculated. The minimum CSULB Index to be considered CSULB first-time, first-year admission: Graduates of California high schools and other California residents: 2.5 GPA or greater in college preparatory subjects per CSU minimum requirements 3,200 minimum CSULB Index for non-STEM majors 3,600 minimum STEM Index for STEM majors (this is higher than the minimum for CSU systemwide eligibility) Other non-California residents: 3.0 GPA or greater in college preparatory subjects per CSU minimum requirements 3,500 minimum CSULB Index for non-STEM majors 3,600 minimum STEM Index for STEM majors (this is higher than the minimum for CSU systemwide eligibility) How will students be considered for admission? Applicants who meet the minimum CSULB criteria above will be considered based on their intended major. Applicants to Music and Dance: Eligible Applicants will be admitted based on the faculty evaluation of an audition, auditions are mandatory. Contact the Dance department or Music department for details of the audition process. Applicants to Nursing: Admission to Nursing will be to a Pre-Nursing status. Students must meet specific course and GPA milestones to remain in Pre-Nursing and must apply to the Nursing department to be considered for admission to the major at the junior level. CSULB strongly recommends that applicants to Nursing complete additional math courses beyond the minimum required for the CSU to improve the likelihood of success in the major and timely graduation. Applicants to Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Majors (STEM majors): Applicants will be admitted based on a calculated STEM Eligibility Index. The STEM Eligibility Index places additional weight on quantitative skills required for success in these majors. Refer to STEM Index for details of how this index is calculated. Applicants who are considered local based on their high school of graduation or military status will be offered admission if they meet the minimum STEM Index. The minimum for consideration is 3,600. Local students who do not meet the 3,600 STEM Index, but have a 2.5 GPA or greater in college preparatory subjects and a 3,200 CSULB Index will be offered admission as undeclared majors. Other eligible applicants will be ranked by the STEM Index and will be offered admission based on space available in the major or college. Admission to STEM majors will be to a pre-major status. Continuation in the major will be subject to meeting specific lower division course and GPA requirements at CSULB that indicate the student’s ability to succeed and complete the major. CSULB strongly recommends that applicants to STEM majors complete additional math courses beyond the minimum required for the CSU to improve the likelihood of success in the major and timely graduation. Applicants to other majors, including undeclared: Applicants will be admitted based on the calculated CSULB Index used in establishing minimum CSULB eligibility above. Applicants who are considered local based on their high school of graduation or military status will be offered admission if they meet the minimum Eligibility Index required of the major. Other applicants will be ranked by the Eligibility Index and will be offered admission based on space available in the major or college. Admission to some majors will be to a pre-major status. Continuation in the major will be subject to meeting specific lower division courses and GPA requirements at CSULB that indicate the student’s ability to succeed and complete the major. What if I am not admitted to the major for which I applied? Local Applicants: Applicants who are considered local based on their high school of graduation or military status who meet the CSULB minimum eligibility requirements but are not admissible to the major will be offered admission as an undeclared student. Undeclared students will explore other appropriate majors through coursework and advising and must meet the major-specific criteria for the major prior to declaring a major by their junior year. Applicants should note that undeclared is not a route to their initial intended major. Undeclared students work with university advisors to identify and succeed in alternate majors. The BEACH Pathways Program: This program encourages applicants from targeted communities based on low socioeconomic status and historically low rates of college going to submit supplemental materials for a holistic admissions review. A limited number of applicants will be admitted based on, community involvement/leadership, overcoming significant hardship, and potential for degree completion. Other applicants: Admission to CSULB is very competitive. As a result, many eligible applicants will not be offered admission. CSULB strongly recommends that all applicants have a backup plan Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111