https://www.csulb.edu/enrollment-services/forms Forms | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Enrollment Services Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Beach Central Resources Enrollment Services Home Forms Ask Elbee Key Dates and Deadlines Uploading Documents Student Workshops Contact Us (Beach Central) Key Dates and Deadlines Understanding Grades and Grading Residency Registration Academic Standing and Appeals Enrollment Verification/Transcripts DocuSign FAQ CSULB Home Enrollment Services Forms Forms Browse by topic below. Each form includes information about why you should use the form and how to complete and submit it. Depending on the form, it will be available as a PDF, an e-Form, in DocuSign, or in MyCSULB Student Center. PDFs are available to download using Adobe Acrobat Reader. Due to potential compatibility issues with various operating systems, we highly recommend that you install Adobe Acrobat Reader to use our PDF forms. Residency Forms California Residency Forms Form (Link) Description CSU Nonresident Tuition Exemption Request (PDF) Students who do not meet the requirements for California resident status but may qualify for the AB540/AB2000 nonresident tuition fee waiver should submit this form to the Residence Specialist. Eligibility criteria is included in the PDF. CSU Residence Questionnaire (PDF) Students should submit this form to the Residence Specialist in order to correct reported residency information or request a residence reclassification to California resident status. Financial Aid Forms: Summer 2024 These forms are for financial aid applications for the 2023-2024 academic year, including summer sessions. Summer 2024 Financial Aid Forms Form (Link) Description Summer 2024 Loan Request: Graduate Student (Webform) Complete this form if you plan to enroll at CSULB for the Summer 2024 semester and would like your loan eligibility evaluated. Summer 2024 Loan Request: Undergraduate and Teaching Credential Students (Webform) Complete this form if you plan to enroll at CSULB for the Summer 2024 semester and would like your summer loan eligibility evaluated. Summer 2024 Loan Request: Private Loan (Webform) Complete this form if you plan to enroll at CSULB for the Summer 2024 semester and have applied for a Private Loan. Financial Aid Forms: 2024-2025 These forms are for financial aid applications for the 2024-2025 academic year. 2024-2025 Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Forms Form (Link) Description SAP Appeal - Disqualified After Warning (Webform) Students who fail to meet the GPA and/or Pace of Progress SAP Standard for 2 consecutive semesters are considered to be ineligible to receive financial aid. You should submit this form, if you wish to appeal your status of Disqualified After Warning. SAP Appeal - Disqualified After Academic Warning (Probation) (Webform) Students who fail to meet the GPA and/or Pace of Progress SAP Standard after 1 semester on SAP Probation are ineligible to receive financial aid. You should submit this form, if you wish to appeal your status of Disqualified After Academic Warning (Probation). SAP Appeal - Maximum Time Frame (MTF) (Webform) You should submit this form if you have been disqualified from receiving financial aid due to exceeding the 150% of your program length (Maximum Time Frame). Chafee Student Success Plan (PDF) If you are a Chafee-recipient who did not meet SAP standards for 2 or 3 consecutive semesters, you must meet with EOP staff to develop a plan for improving your academic progress and/or update an existing plan to remain eligible for Chafee grant funding. Chafee Reinstatement Petition (PDF) If you are a Chafee-recipient who did not meet SAP standards for 4 or more consecutive semesters, you must meet with EOP staff to petition for reinstatement of Chafee funding eligibility. 2024-2025 Financial Aid Forms Form (Link) Description 2022 Non-Tax Filer for Parents (PDF) Parent Form: If your student's Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) has been selected for additional review by the U.S. Dept. of Education, please print, complete, and sign this form. 2022 Non-Tax Filer for Parent's Spouse (PDF) Parent's Spouse Form: If your student's Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) has been selected for additional review by the U.S. Dept. of Education, please print, complete, and sign this form. 2022 Non-Tax Filer for Parent (Foreign Country) (PDF) Parent (Foreign Country) Form: If your student's Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) has been selected for additional review by the U.S. Dept. of Education, please print, complete, and sign this form. 2024-2025 Award Adjustment Request Form (Webform) You should complete this form if you need any adjustments to your financial aid amounts. Reasons may include loan adjustments, Federal Work-Study adjustments, and/or enrollment status changes. Form must be submitted at least 15 days prior to your last date of enrollment for 2024-2025 Academic Year. 2024-2025 Cost of Attendance Adjustment Request (Webform) You should complete this form if you have additional expenses that are not being considered in your academic year Cost of Attendance. Make sure to review the eligible categories on the form. Note that during peak summer processing periods, Cost of Attendance Adjustment Requests will be reviewed within two months of receipt. 2024-2025 Dependency Override Appeal (Webform) You should complete this form if you are currently considered a dependent student for financial aid purposes, but believe you have exceptional circumstances which warrant a review of your dependency status for 2023-2024. If you have already been approved for a Dependency Override, you do not have to submit this form to re-affirm your circumstances for 2024-2025. ***PLEASE NOTE: The US Department of Education is not allowing any Colleges and Universities to make changes to FAFSA Data until July 2024. As a result, these appeals will begin processing in mid July.*** 2024-2025 Income Appeal (Webform) If you or your family's financial situation has significantly changed from 2022 (the tax year used on your 2024-2025 aid application), you may request a re-evaluation of your aid eligibility using more current income information. Make sure to review and follow all instructions listed on this form. Note that during peak summer processing periods, Income Appeals will be reviewed within two months of receipt. ***PLEASE NOTE: The US Department of Education is not allowing any Colleges and Universities to make changes to FAFSA Data until July 2024. As a result, these appeals will begin processing in mid July.*** 2024-2025 Federal Pell Grant Adjustment Form (Webform) The purpose of this form is for reconsideration of the Pell Grant award based on post-Census enrollment changes due to administrative error or the repayment of a Pell Grant overpayment. Do not complete this form if your family has experienced a change in income and/or circumstances and would like these circumstances to be taken into account in the evaluation of your financial aid eligibility. You should instead submit the 2024-2025 Income Appeal eform. 2024-2025 Financial Aid Cross Enrollment Verification Form (PDF) Complete this form if you would like units taken at a CA Community College to count as part of your CSULB enrollment. Note: You must also complete the Cross-Enrollment Form (UC and Community College) under the Registration and Records Forms section. 2024-2025 Request for Financial Aid Disbursement through CSULB for Intrasystem Concurrent or Visitor Enrollment Programs (PDF) Complete this form if you would like units taken at another CSU Campus to count as part of your CSULB enrollment. Note: You must also complete the Concurrent/Visitor Enrollment Form under the Registration and Records Forms section. 2024-2025 Study Abroad Financial Aid (CSU Programs) (PDF) Complete this form if you are receiving financial aid and will be studying abroad in 2024-2025 through a CSU Program (IP, Direct Exchange, Florence/London Semester). 2024-2025 Study Abroad Financial Aid (Non-CSU Programs) (PDF) Complete this form if you are receiving financial aid and will be studying abroad in 2024-2025 through an independent Study Abroad provider. 2024-2025 Federal TEACH Grant Form (Webform) Submit this form if you are planning to teach and are interested in receiving the TEACH Grant. The TEACH Grant is designed for students who intend to fulfill their teaching obligations in a “high-need” field at a public or private elementary or secondary school that the U.S. Department of Education has designated as having a high concentration of students from low-income families. Registration and Records Forms Registration and Records Forms Form (Link) Description Concurrent Enrollment Form (PDF) This application is to be used by California State University students who wish to enroll concurrently at another CSU campus. For CSULB students, visit Supplemental Credit for CSULB Students website for more information. For non-CSULB students, please review the Visitors/Concurrent website for more information. Please mail your completed form to: CSULB Office of Enrollment Services ATTN: Registration & Records 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Brotman Hall 123 Long Beach, CA 90840 Visitor Enrollment Form (PDF) This application is to be used by California State University students who wish to enroll as a visitor at another CSU campus. For CSULB students, visit Supplemental Credit for CSULB Students website for more information. For non-CSULB students, please review the Visitors/Concurrent website for more information. Please mail your completed form to: CSULB Office of Enrollment Services ATTN: Registration & Records 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Brotman Hall 123 Long Beach, CA 90840 Contact Information Change Request (DocuSign) Current CSULB students can change their contact information through MyCSULB Student Center. This form should only be used by former students/alumni who need to update their contact information. Cross-Enrollment Form (UC and Community College) (PDF) This form is used by California residents currently enrolled at CSULB who wish to enroll in one undergraduate course per academic term at a participating University of California campus or California Community College. Visit Supplemental Credit for Current CSULB Students for more information. Please mail your completed form to: CSULB Office of Enrollment Services ATTN: Registration & Records 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Brotman Hall 123 Long Beach, CA 90840 Educational Leave (SSO Login Required) To preserve your current catalog rights and avoid being discontinued from CSULB, you're required to maintain continuous enrollment at CSULB. You must complete at least one class and earn unit(s) every fall and spring semester after being admitted unless you are on an approved leave of absence, either an Educational Leave or a Military Leave. Your request for an Educational Leave must be made in advance and include an explanation of your reasons for seeking the leave and a statement of when you intend to return to CSULB. For more information, please visit Educational Leave. Grade Option Change Request (SSO Login Required) This request is used to change the grading option for a class you are already enrolled in to Credit/No Credit (CR/NC) or Audit (AU). Approval is required. Only some classes have the option for you to enroll on a CR/NC or AU basis. For more information, please visit Understanding Grades and Grading. Legal Name Change Form (DocuSign) In order for Enrollment Services to change your name or a name correction on legal documents, you must fill out this form along with the appropriate documentation requested. This form is only used by current and former students. Maximum Unit Exception (SSO Login Required) University policy has identified a maximum number of units you may enroll in for each term. If you wish to enroll in more than the maximum number of units for a term (considered an "overload"), you must submit a request for a Maximum Unit Exception. Exceptions are considered only if you have both a demonstrated need for the overload (usually to avoid undue delay in graduation) and the demonstrated ability to succeed in a heavy course load. A minimum 3.0 GPA is required. For more information, please visit Student Unit Load. Military Leave (SSO Login Required) For students being called to active military services, Title 5, Section 40401, provides an extended Military Leave for up to a maximum of five years due to approved educational reasons and for circumstances beyond a student’s control. Requests for military leave must be accompanied by a copy of military orders indicating the induction date. CSULB will approve a military leave for students called for active military service as a result of mobilization of U.S. military reserves. In the case of students called for active military service, CSULB will authorize withdrawals throughout the term. For more information, please visit Educational Leave. For assistance with dropping current classes and other processing, contact Veterans Services. Permission to Add (SSO Login Required) Once self-service registration ends for the semester (after the second week of classes or proportionate for winter and summer terms), students may only add classes with class instructor and department approvals. This process is available on MyCSULB Student Center after the self-service registration deadline. See Permission to Add for more information. Reinstatement Petition Form (DocuSign) Please use this form if you are a disqualified student who has been out of attendance for at least one fall or one spring semester. To be considered for reinstatement, a disqualified student must meet the requirements for reinstatement. Please see Academic Standing and Appeals for more information. Repeat Limit Exception Request (SSO Login Required) This request is used in circumstances where you need to repeat a course more than once and/or repeat a course for audit purposes. This is an exception to the academic policy on undergraduate limits. You may not enroll in or receive unit credit for a course for which you have already received a grade of A, B, C or CR, including a university-level course taken at a high school or another college or university. For more information, please visit Repeating Courses. Request for Evaluation of Course Work from Another Institution (DocuSign) CSULB students who wish to attend another school to earn credit while currently enrolled at CSULB should use this form prior to enrolling elsewhere. Please review Supplemental Credit for CSULB Students for additional information. Undergraduate Academic Appeals (via Student Records) Under certain circumstances, an undergraduate student may appeal for an exception to academic policy. Such appeals include GE substitutions and waivers, exceptions to the maximum limit for withdrawals (18 units) and repeating courses (28 units), academic renewal, and exceptions for graduation requirements. Exceptions are considered only in cases of demonstrated need and documented circumstances, and the outcome is not guaranteed. Refer to Academic Appeals for DocuSign form links. Withdrawal Forms Please refer to Dropping and Withdrawing for detailed information prior to submitting any dropping/withdrawal forms. Withdrawal Forms Form (Link) Description Petition to Withdraw (SSO Login Required) During the first two weeks of class, you may drop one or more classes using self-service registration on MyCSULB Student Center. Starting the third week of class (or proportionate for winter or summer terms), if you wish to withdraw from a class, you must request to withdraw using this online request. During the final three weeks of class, you will need to upload documentation of serious and extenuating circumstances beyond your control that prevent you from continuing in your classes. Catastrophic Withdrawal Request - Medical (PDF) You may request to withdraw for medical reasons when a serious medical condition—such as an illness, accident, or mental health condition—prevents you from continuing in your classes and Incompletes are not possible. Medical withdrawals require that your physician or health care provider submit documentation. Please submit documentation through a help ticket with the Office of the Registrar (Student Records). Graduation Forms Graduation Forms Form (Link) Description Request to Change Graduation Term (via Student Records) For Graduate Students only. If you are an Undergraduate student please connect with your advisor to change your graduation term. If you have already applied to graduate and need to change your graduation term, you must request to change your graduation term. Timely Graduation Appeal (via Student Records) Students who must delay graduation and/or are requesting a change in academic objectives after establishing a graduation term may need to submit an appeal. Refer to Timely Graduation for details. Undergraduate Request for Reactivation of Graduation (DocuSign) This form is for students who previously filed for graduation, didn't maintain continuous attendance, and believe all degree requirements have been met. Continuous attendance is defined as attendance in a course at a California Community College, CSU, or UC campus for at least one unit of credit in at least one semester each calendar year. CSULB extension courses do not count toward continuous attendance. Students may be required to resubmit transcripts from all other colleges/universities attended. Students who have been disqualified from the University and have not yet been reinstated are not eligible for reactivation. The student must be reinstated before filing reactivation. Please see Readmission and Former Students Degree Requirements for more information. Image For support with Admissions; Financial Aid and Scholarships; and Student Records, submit a help ticket or make an appointment (virtual or in-person). Contact Us Visit: Intake Windows Brotman Hall, First Floor Courtyard Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Beach Central Appointments Brotman Hall, 201 Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Walk-ins welcome! Call: Phone: 562.985.5471 Phone Service Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. For Accessible Assistance Explore the Bob Murphy Access Center Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111