https://www.csulb.edu/give Give | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Give Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Giving Annual Giving Association of Emeriti Carillon Society Leadership Giving Loyalty Donors No Barriers Planned Giving President's Associates CSULB at 75 Annual Giving Association of Emeriti Carillon Society Leadership Giving Loyalty Donors No Barriers Planned Giving President's Associates College and Division Contacts Legacy Society Update Your Information CSULB Home Give Image Crowdfunding Image GIVE ONLINE NOW Image Planned Giving Ways to Give Gifts By Mail To send a check or credit card gift through the mail, print out and complete our Gift-Pledge Form (PDF). Send your completed form and along with your check (payable to the “CSULB 49er Foundation”) to the following address: CSULB 49er Foundation Attention: Gift Processing 1250 Bellflower Blvd BH-387 Long Beach, CA 90840 Gifts By Phone To give over the phone, please call Mary Ann Messing at 562.985.8491. The CSULB 49er Foundation accepts Visa, MasterCard and American Express. For specific college contacts, please visit the Development staff contact page. Gifts of Stocks/Securities To make a gift of publicly traded stocks and/or securities, please email Mary Ann Messing or call her at 562.985.8491. Required information for stocks and/or securities transfer include: First and Last name Complete mailing address (CSULB will mail you a receipt) Name of stock and number of shares to be transferred Designation of your gift (program/department/college) Broker Information Your broker will require the following information to affect your gift: Jessica Ellis Morgan Stanley 1999 Avenue of the Stars, 24th Floor Los Angeles, CA 90067 Phone: (310) 788-2053 Fax: (310) 961-3180 DTC wire transfer number: 0015 Account name: CSULB 49er Foundation Account # 812-014483 The CSULB 49er Foundation represents that it is qualified as a charitable organization and a 501(c)(3) non-profit public benefit organization (federal ID 45-2163910). Matching Gifts Often, a company will match, double or even triple gifts that are made by their employees! To check the matching gift policies of your company, please visit the matching gifts database. Additional information may also be available by contacting your human resources representative. You may be asked to complete a matching gift form and submit it to CSULB, along with your donation. Matching gift programs stretch employees’ contributions and greatly impact our colleges and programs. Payroll Deduction Program for Faculty and Staff Employees of California State University, Long Beach can support their favorite programs and/or colleges by participating in the Support the Beach Payroll Deduction Program. Contributions can be directed to any campus designation that has an associated 49er Foundation fund. Please include the name of the designation on our employee payroll deduction form. For your reference, our online giving site lists many of the most common designations. For more information, please email Julie Wilson or call her at 562.985.8867. Gift Planning Many of our donors choose to leave a legacy at California State University, Long Beach and make arrangements for planned gifts with the assistance of our Planned Giving team. Learn more about Planned Giving and Stewardship. Your gift What's exciting about supporting Long Beach State is that you can make your mark in the area of your choosing, directing your gift to the university's most pressing needs via the Beach Fund or to the specific college, scholarship, program, or special initiative of your choice. Transparency Image Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111