https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/graduate-programs-application-process Graduate Programs Application Process | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Graduate Programs Admission Eligibility Graduate Application Guide (PDF) Graduate Programs Applicant Self Service Financial Aid for Graduate Students CSULB Home Admissions Graduate Programs Application Process Graduate Programs Application Process Ready to Seek an Advanced Degree? Apply to CSULB to pursue your master's or doctoral degree! CSULB offers a variety of master's degree and doctoral degree programs in over 65 fields. Explore the Graduate Studies pages for a complete listing of available programs to see which experience is right for you. Plus, read through FAQs and additional support resources uniquely geared to potential grad students. Be sure to review each program’s eligibility and application requirements before you apply. Keep in mind that in addition to the university application (Cal State Apply), most CSULB grad programs have supplementary application requirements. When ready to apply, follow the steps to below: 1. Verify Your Application Deadline(s) The application period for Spring admission begins on August 1, and the application period for Fall admission begins on October 1. Not all graduate programs are open for admission each spring or fall term, and application deadlines vary by program. Visit the Graduate Studies website for a complete list of available programs, admission terms, and application deadlines. 2. Submit Your University Application (Cal State Apply) When you are ready to apply, visit Cal State Apply - Graduate to submit the university admission application and pay the $70 nonrefundable application fee online by the application deadline for your program. Be aware that the CSU does not offer application fee waivers for graduate applicants. CSULB graduates or candidates must reapply to the university under the same conditions and deadlines as all other applicants. The CSULB Admissions Office will send you a notification by email to acknowledge receipt of your university application. Students may only be considered for one application per academic term and will only be considered for the program for which they initially applied. 3. Submit Official Transcripts to CSULB Please submit one set of official transcripts only from the college or university you have earned your bachelor’s degree. Only one set of official transcripts is required, and they must be submitted to Enrollment Services. Official transcripts may be submitted electronically directly from a U.S. college or university to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts may also be sent in a sealed envelope to the address below: Enrollment Services/Admissions California State University, Long Beach 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Important Note: You must provide only official transcript from the college or university you earned your bachelor’s degree. Failure to provide all transcripts by the program deadline will result in withdrawal due to an incomplete application. Are you a CSULB degree holder? CSULB degree holders applying for CSULB graduate programs do not need to submit their CSULB transcripts as those particular transcripts are already on file with the university. 4. Verify ALL Grad Program Requirements In addition to the University application (Cal State Apply), most CSULB grad programs require supplemental applications or information. You must check with the program for specific information on these requirements. Visit the Graduate Studies page to learn more. 5. Check Your Application Status The CSULB Admissions Office will review your application and transcripts to verify your eligibility based on the minimum University admission requirements. If you meet these minimum requirements, your application will be forwarded to your academic program for review. You will receive notification of your admission status after the department has made their decision. CSULB uses email as the official means of communication, so applicants are required to maintain a current email address on file with the university and check their email regularly. You may update your email address or check the status of your admission application by visiting the Applicant Self-Service webpage. 6. Satisfy the Terms of Your Admission Offer What is Provisional Admission? Graduate applicants may be offered admission on a provisional basis if certain requirements (such as the baccalaureate degree) are in progress at the time of admission. These requirements must be completed prior to enrollment in the program, and failure to meet these requirements will result in the rescission of the admission offer. What is a student standing of “Conditionally Classified”? Graduate applicants who have deficiencies in prerequisite preparation for their program may be admitted with a standing of “Conditionally Classified” if deemed appropriate by the program’s faculty. This standing means that continued enrollment in the program is contingent upon meeting additional requirements specified by the academic department. The program advisor will communicate the conditions of admission to newly admitted students. How will I know if I have met all of the Conditions of Admission? Provisional Admits: A final official transcript showing the conferral date for the baccalaureate degree must be submitted no later than August 15 (for students admitted for Fall) and January 15 (for students admitted for Spring). After receipt of the final transcript, the admission decision will be audited to ensure all requirements have been met. If the requirements have not been met, the student will receive notification that the offer of admission has been rescinded. Students will be allowed to enroll for classes prior to receipt of the final transcript; however, if proof of degree completion is not received by the deadline, classes will be administratively dropped. “Conditionally Classified” Student Standing: At the end of the term, departments will monitor the progress of students in “Conditionally Classified” standing. Upon successful completion of the specified prerequisites, the student standing will be changed to “Classified”. Students will be allowed to enroll for classes; however, if the required preparation is not completed within the timeframe established by the department, the student may be immediately dismissed from the program. 7. Can I Appeal My Admission Decision? Denials of admission are made only after an extensive review of academic qualifications, weighing those qualifications against the competitive nature of our applicant pool, and considering the recommendation of the department. Therefore these decisions are rarely overturned and are considered only for extraordinary reasons beyond the control of the applicant. We review every application for maximum consideration. For an appeal to have merit, it must contain new, serious and compelling information that clearly shows you to be academically stronger than you had been earlier evidenced. Mistakes made on the application are not basis for an appeal or the reversal of a decision. Additionally, the prospect of a stronger academic performance in a current term is not sufficient basis for an appeal. Submit an Admissions Appeal Guidelines: Complete the Admissions Appeal Process form requesting we reconsider your application. The form must come from you (the applicant) and be submitted no later 15 days after receipt of your original admissions decision. Appeals submitted via hard-copy letter, email or fax are not acceptable, and will not be considered. Your submission must clearly outline your reason for appealing the decision and the information you present should be new and compelling. You must include supporting documentation. You cannot appeal being waitlisted, or your position on a waitlist. Once your appeal is submitted, we will carefully consider the information presented and, if you meet CSU minimum requirements, we will consult with the department on whether the admission decision should be overturned. We will notify you by email within 4-6 weeks of our response to your appeal request. Only one appeal may be submitted for an academic term so your appeal packet must be clear and compelling when submitted. Students appealing a residency decision should contact the Residency Specialist at es-residency@csulb.edu. Students who have applied through the Bob Murphy Access Center Admission Process should contact Bob Murphy Access Center Services at (562) 985.4430 Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111