https://www.csulb.edu/news?utm_source=website&utm_medium=homepage&utm_content=footerlink&utm_campaign=web News | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content News Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu News In The Media Making Waves University Statements CSULB Home News This is a carousel with auto-rotating slides. Activate any of the buttons to disable rotation. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. How CSULB professor Joseph White and the Educational Opportunity Program transformed higher ed Since 1967, EOP has fostered inclusion and extended life-changing opportunities to numerous… Certificate programs at The Beach help working pros rise to new levels Cal State Long Beach is for everyone, including early- and mid-career professionals seeking… CSULB Professor Rashida Crutchfield, a champion for students experiencing homelessness, honored with Wang Family Excellence Award The CSU Board of Trustees honored CSULB professor Rashida Crutchfield for her advocacy for students… CSULB to introduce a Doctor of Public Health degree in fall 2025 The DPH will prepare students for advanced practice and leadership. Beach Voices: National Day of Racial Healing and one student's journey in finding her voice "Belonging, I’ve learned, isn’t just about fitting in. It’s about finding spaces where your… Join the Beach community for the 2025 MLK Day of Service CSULB and Leadership Long Beach offer opportunities to give back on MLK Day of Service. The Big Brown Music Machine's sound reverberates through CSULB history CSULB's former marching band, The Big Brown Music Machine, entertained crowds on - and off - campus. Categories CategoriesCelebrated ReputationBoundless OpportunityTrusted OutcomesCampus UpdateCampaign UpdateCommunity and Public GoodFuture WorkforceStudent Empowerment DATE DateThis weekThis MonthThis Year Search Stories Date Min Max Reset How CSULB professor Joseph White and the Educational Opportunity Program transformed higher ed February 5, 2025 Celebrated Reputation Since 1967, EOP has fostered inclusion and extended life-changing opportunities to numerous students at The Beach and the entire CSU. Certificate programs at The Beach help working pros rise to new levels February 3, 2025 Boundless Opportunity Cal State Long Beach is for everyone, including early- and mid-career professionals seeking promotions or career transitions. CSULB Professor Rashida Crutchfield, a champion for students experiencing homelessness, honored with Wang Family Excellence Award January 28, 2025 Celebrated Reputation The CSU Board of Trustees honored CSULB professor Rashida Crutchfield for her advocacy for students living with homelessness and food insecurity. CSULB to introduce a Doctor of Public Health degree in fall 2025 January 24, 2025 Boundless Opportunity The DPH will prepare students for advanced practice and leadership. CSULB, community colleges build on 25-year partnership to tackle shortage of nurses, teachers January 23, 2025 Celebrated Reputation CSULB and community colleges partner to help students transfer faster and fill urgent job shortages. Beach Voices: National Day of Racial Healing and one student's journey in finding her voice January 21, 2025 Celebrated Reputation "Belonging, I’ve learned, isn’t just about fitting in. It’s about finding spaces where your identity isn’t a burden but a gift." Gospel Music Week debuts at CSULB, uniting campus, community January 13, 2025 Celebrated Reputation No auditions are required and singers of any skill level — or none at all — are welcome Join the Beach community for the 2025 MLK Day of Service January 8, 2025 Celebrated Reputation CSULB and Leadership Long Beach offer opportunities to give back on MLK Day of Service. The Big Brown Music Machine's sound reverberates through CSULB history January 6, 2025 Celebrated Reputation CSULB's former marching band, The Big Brown Music Machine, entertained crowds on - and off - campus. CSULB students immerse in nature and research at Sequoia foothills ranch January 2, 2025 Boundless Opportunity Since 2018, hundreds of CSULB geography and environmental studies students have ventured out to River Ridge Ranch. Foster, Hara ‘82 join CSULB 49er Foundation Board December 18, 2024 Campus Update The board promotes philanthropy and manages donations to advance The Beach. Award-winning Beach TV News serves as diverse pipeline from CSULB to the industry December 16, 2024 Celebrated Reputation Beach TV News has won some of this year’s top collegiate journalism awards in the country, and serves as a diverse pipeline for broadcast TV news nationally. More News More News Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111