https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/other-credential-programs Other Credential Programs | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Teaching Credential Programs Financial Aid for Credential Programs Steps for Newly Admitted Credential Students Graduate Application Guide (PDF) CSULB Home Admissions Other Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Credentials in the State of California are regulated by the legislature and administered by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CCTC). If you are interested in pursuing a Single Subject Credential, Multiple Subject Credential, Education Specialist Preliminary Credential, or the Urban Dual Credential program, please review the information on Teaching Credential Programs and visit the Teacher Preparation Advising Center (TPAC) website. CSULB also offers service credentials, advanced credentials, and credential authorization programs for students who have completed a bachelor’s degree. The Graduate Studies Office in the College of Education offers pre-program advising and information for individuals who are interested in obtaining one of the following service credentials: Preliminary Administrative Services Credential Teacher Librarian Services Credential School Counseling Pupil Personnel Services Credential (with MS in Counseling, option in School Counseling) School Psychology Pupil Personnel Services Credential (with EdS in School Psychology) CSULB also offers several service credentials and credential authorization programs through the College of Health & Human Services. Contact program faculty for pre-program advising and information if you are interested in one of the following programs: Adapted Physical Education School Social Work Child Welfare and Attendance Pupil Personnel Services Credential Speech Language Pathology Services How Do I Qualify for Admission to One of These Programs? To qualify for admission to the university as a post-baccalaureate student to pursue a service credential, advanced credential, or credential authorization, you must meet general university admission requirements as well as the professional, personal, scholastic or other standards as prescribed by the program. The minimum university admission requirements for post-baccalaureate consideration are: Complete a four-year college course of study and hold an acceptable baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution by the end of the summer term prior to Fall enrollment or the end of the Fall semester for Spring enrollment. Be in good standing at the last college or university you attended. Meet the minimum GPA requirements for admission to the university. This can be met in any of the following ways: Hold an advanced degree Hold a baccalaureate degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5. Hold a baccalaureate degree with a GPA of at least 2.5 in the last 60 semester or 90 quarter units you attempted, excluding lower-division and/or extension coursework attempted after the baccalaureate degree. Students in the process of completing a baccalaureate degree may be admitted on a provisional basis, subject to proof of degree completion, if their cumulative GPA is at least 2.7 or if the GPA in their last 60 semester or 90 quarter units are calculated at a 2.5 or higher. An official transcript showing degree completion must be submitted or the offer of admission will be withdrawn. These credential programs have additional admission and application requirements, so applicants should contact the program directly for more information. What is the Application Deadline? The application period for Spring admission begins on August 1, and the application period for Fall admission begins on October 1. Be sure to check the College of Education program application website for application deadlines. Submit the University Application Online Submit the university application online: When you are ready to apply, visit Cal State Apply to submit the university admission application and the nonrefundable application fee is $70. Be aware that the CSU does not offer application fee waivers for credential applicants. CSULB graduates or candidates must reapply to the university under the same conditions and deadlines as all other applicants. The CSULB Admissions Office will send you a notification by email to acknowledge receipt of your application. Students may only be considered for one application per academic term and will only be considered for the program for which they initially applied. Submit your transcripts: Please submit one set of official transcripts from the college or university you received your Undergraduate dree from. Only one set of official transcripts is required, and they must be submitted to Enrollment Services. Official transcripts may be submitted electronically directly from a U.S. college or university to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts may also be sent in a sealed envelope to the address below: Enrollment Services/Admissions California State University, Long Beach 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Verify the program application requirements: These programs have additional requirements, so applicants should review the College of Education program applicationwebsite and contact the program directly for more information. When Will I be Notified of the Admission Decision? The CSULB Admissions Office will review your application and transcripts to verify your eligibility based on the minimum university admission requirements. If you meet these minimum requirements, your application will be forwarded to the program for review. You will receive notification of your admission status after the program has made their decision. CSULB uses email as the official means of communication, so applicants are required to maintain a current email address on file with the university and check their email regularly. You may update your email address or check the status of your admission application by visiting the Applicant Self-Service webpage. What Is Provisional Admission? Credential applicants may be offered admission on a provisional basis if certain requirements (such as the baccalaureate degree) are in progress at the time of admission. These requirements must be completed prior to enrollment in the program, and failure to meet these requirements will result in the rescission of the admission offer. Students who are offered “provisional admission” must submit to Enrollment Services a final official transcript showing the conferral date for the baccalaureate degree as follows: If you were offered provisional admission for the spring semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than January 15. If you were offered provisional admission for the fall semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than August 15. After receipt of the final transcript, the admission decision will be audited to ensure all requirements have been met. If the requirements have not been met, the student will receive notification that the offer of admission has been rescinded. Students will be allowed to enroll for classes prior to receipt of the transcript; however, if proof of degree completion is not received by the deadline, classes will be administratively dropped. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111