https://www.csulb.edu/student-affairs/pregnant-and-parenting-students Pregnant and Parenting Students | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Pregnant and Parenting Students Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Student Affairs About Student Affairs Leadership & Organization Equity & Inclusion Dining Services Student Accommodations Parents & Families of CSULB Students Testing Department Assessment & Evaluation Communications & Marketing Involvement ASI Student Government Career Services Cultural & Identity Services Clubs & Organizations Men’s Success Initiative Women & Gender Equity Center ASI Beach Pride Events 22 West Media Free Speech Health & Wellness Counseling & Psychological Services Student Health Services Disability Services Food & Housing Services Student Academic Resources Recreation Center CARES Student Communities Beach XP Educational Opportunity Program Guardian Scholars McNair Research Scholars Pregnant & Parenting Students Project Rebound TRiO Student Support Services Undocumented Students Services Veterans Services Housing New & Future Students Tours Student Orientation University Outreach & School Relations First Year Programs GEAR UP TRiO Educational Talent Search TRiO Upward Bound Program California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal-SOAP) About Us Admissions Events and Workshops Resource Hub Early Registration Advocacy and Support CalWORKs Program Childcare Family Friendly Study Area Financial Resources Food Resources Health and Wellness Housing Resources Lactation Rooms, Changing Rooms & Menstrual Products Pregnant and Parenting Student Rights Women's & Gender Equity Center Giving To Pregnant and Parenting Students Contact Us CSULB Home Student Affairs Pregnant and Parenting Students Pregnant and Parenting Students In 2016, CSULB Student Affairs Division executed the pregnant and parenting student initiative, a campus-wide endeavor to support pregnant and parenting students' equity efforts and gaps. The intentional focus of the initiative continues today with incredible faculty, staff, and student leaders. California State University, Long Beach is committed to the academic and personal success of all students including those who are pregnant and parenting. We have various support services designed to help pregnant and parenting students succeed and thrive at the Beach. Please check out some of these resources and services available to student parents. Image ASI Government ASI Student Government supports pregnant and parenting students through a dedicated cabinet commissioner who advises the president on issues, advocates for policy changes, and provides programming tailored to this community's needs Image Basic Need We support student success by addressing basic needs, offering resources like food, housing, financial wellness, and assistance with CalFresh and CalWORKs to help you thrive academically and navigate college life confidently. Image BMAC BMAC provides accommodations for student parents, these include medically necessary modifications, lactation breaks, and leave for childbirth i.e. 2 weeks for uncomplicated births and 6 - 8 weeks for C-sections to support academic success. Image Child and Family Center The Center is an educational program which provides training of early childhood professionals in Child Development and Family Studies. The Center also provides quality childcare services for CSULB employees and their families and opening services for student parents. Expected opening 2025-2026 academic year. Image CAPS CAPS provides comprehensive support for students navigating personal challenges and mental health concerns. Services include short-term individual counseling, group counseling, case management, referrals to external resources, psychoeducational workshops, and immediate crisis intervention. Image Isabel Patterson Child Development Center The Isabel Patterson Child Development Center offers affordable on-campus child care for CSULB student-parents, providing quality early care and education for 230 children, from 6 months to 2nd grade, with licensed and accredited staff. Image Library The Family Friendly Study Area in the library is a “no-shushing” area with children’s books, toys, and 2 children’s game computers where parents can come study and use library resources with their children in tow. Image Office of Equity and Compliance The Office of Equity & Compliance reviews concern under the CSU Nondiscrimination Policy. This includes discrimination on the basis of sex - including pregnancy, parenting and all related conditions. Image Partners in Research and Outreach for Health PRO-Health helps connect pregnant families to free resources like classes, diapers, and Doula services through community partnerships. Their Rooting for Better Health project offers free health screenings to support healthy births and infant development. Image Student Life Development Student Life and Development hosts student organizations like Students with Dependents, which supports CSULB students in parenthood, guardianship, or pregnancy by offering events, resources, and advocating for nontraditional students' challenges with administration and faculty. Image Leadership Resource Center The Lois J. Swanson Leadership Resource Center offers two free programs for CSULB students: the Emerging Leaders Certificate, introducing leadership topics through workshops, and the Leadership Academy Certificate, enhancing leadership competencies through a structured curriculum. Image Dean of Students The Dean of Students Office supports pregnant, postpartum, and parenting students by assisting with balancing academic responsibilities and parenthood, ensuring both academic success and well-being. We are here to support your journey. Image Student Health Services Student Health Services promotes academic success and wellness through affordable, high-quality care. Our collaborative team provides confidential, inclusive health services and education to support the diverse needs of the campus community. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111