https://www.csulb.edu/research-foundation Research Foundation | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Research Foundation Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu Research Foundation Board of Directors Schedules & Meetings Policies and Executive Orders Contact Us KKJZ 88.1 FM Departments Executive and Admin Services Human Resources and Payroll Finance and Accounting Facilities Management Employment Employment Opportunities Job Listings Employee Resources Coded Memoranda Benefits Open Enrollment Direct Deposit Login Instructions Employee Benefit Summary Employee Handbook New Hire Forms Payroll Schedule Forms Transparency Corporate Documents Financial Information Public Record Request AIPS Board of Directors Schedules & Meetings Policies and Executive Orders Contact Us KKJZ 88.1 FM Office of Research and Economic Development 49er Foundation CSULB Home Research Foundation Research Foundation The CSULB Research Foundation (Research Foundation) was established in 1956 as a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization. The Research Foundation exists to enhance and advance the educational mission of CSULB. One of the many responsibilities of the Research Foundation is to provide accounting and administrative services for programs sponsored by federal, state, local, and private funding used for faculty research projects and training programs. This externally-sponsored research allows faculty and students to engage in nationally-recognized scholarly endeavors, and is the cornerstone of CSULB’s academic excellence. Mission Statement California State University, Long Beach Research Foundation serves the mission of the University by supporting and engaging in research, entrepreneurship, community service, sponsored programs and the acquisition of private resources. Our Vision Dedicated and Caring Employees Exceeding Expectations Exploring New Opportunities Valued as a vital contributor to the Campus Community Our Values Integrity Maintain high standards and consistent performance within an environment of professional ethics and responsibility of one's actions. Service Provide excellent, cost-effective and responsive services to students, faculty, staff, and the community at large. Teamwork Promote an environment of cooperation, trust and open communication. Diversity Embrace the strengths, experiences and talents of every individual. Innovation Support new ideas, entrepreneurship and continuous improvement. Services Some of the services provided by the Research Foundation include financial services in the form of accounts payable, accounts receivable, asset management, audit, banking and cashiering. Through our purchasing operation we work with vendors to secure products and services for use by our sponsored programs. We also provide legal and risk management services to programs administered through the Research Foundation as a means of minimizing exposure and shielding against liability. Lastly, we provide human resources, payroll and employee benefit services to approximately 1,600 individuals annually. These are all necessary administrative components required to operate effectively, safely, and legally. Funding The Research Foundation receives funding from a variety of federal, state, local and private agencies. As a self-supporting entity, the Research Foundation does not receive any state General Fund revenue. Since most sponsored programs are funded on a cost reimbursement basis, the Research Foundation provides the necessary up-front capital to hire employees, purchase goods and services and anything else needed to allow a program to operate. After these expenses are incurred, the sponsoring agency is billed, and the Research Foundation is ultimately reimbursed for the expenses. With this structural support in place, professors engaged in research are better able to pursue their research endeavors. Office Hours Research Foundation Bldg, Suite 332 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Monday-Friday Phone: 562.985.5537 Organization Chart (PDF) Mailing Address CSULB Research Foundation 6300 East State University Drive Suite 332 Long Beach CA 90815 Directions to Research Foundation Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111