https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/steps-for-newly-admitted-certificate-students Steps for Newly Admitted Certificate Students | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Key Dates and Deadlines Certificate Programs Overview Financial Aid for Certificate Students Obtaining Your Certificate CSULB Home Admissions Steps for Newly Admitted Certificate Students Steps for Newly Admitted Certificate Students Congratulations and welcome to CSULB! You have an exciting journey ahead of you, and we want to make sure that you are well prepared to get started in pursuing your academic goals. As a new certificate student, there are still a few steps you need to take to make sure you successfully transition to the Beach! 1. Accept Your Admission Offer Log in to CSULB Single Sign-On and select MyCSULB Student Center. Throughout your time as a student, you'll use this hub to review your financial aid information, register for classes, check your account balance, and more. In the Admissions section, select “Accept/Decline.” Follow the instructions to Accept/Decline Admission Offer. For support, visit Using MyCSULB: Admissions. 2. Submit Your Final Transcript (Provisional Admits Only) What is “Provisional Admission”? Post-baccalaureate certificate applicants may be offered admission on a provisional basis if certain requirements (such as the baccalaureate degree) are in progress at the time of admission. These requirements must be completed prior to enrollment in the program, and failure to meet these requirements will result in the rescission of the admission offer. What steps do I need to take if I was offered “Provisional Admission”? If you were offered “provisional admission,” you must submit to Enrollment Services a final official transcript showing the conferral date for your baccalaureate degree as follows: If you were offered provisional admission for the spring semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than January 15. If you were offered provisional admission for the fall semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than August 15. After receipt of the final transcript, the admission decision will be audited to ensure all requirements have been met. If the requirements have not been met, you will receive notification that the offer of admission has been rescinded. Students will be allowed to enroll for classes prior to receipt of the transcript; however, if proof of degree completion is not received by the deadline, classes will be administratively dropped. 3. Contact Your Academic Advisor Check with your Academic Advisor if you have questions regarding the courses you are required to take to complete your certificate. 4. Check Out the Schedule of Classes The Schedule of Classes is published online for each term. By selecting the appropriate term, you can view the offerings by Academic Subject or by College. The lists are updated regularly to reflect changes. You can view the requirements for your program and the course descriptions in the University Catalog. Schedule of Classes Final Exam Schedule University Catalog 5. Register for Classes Students register for classes through their MyCSULB Student Center. Each semester, you will receive a registration appointment via email. It is imperative that you have a current email address listed in your Student Center in order to receive your appointment. Your registration appointment will announce the day and time you can begin to register for classes. How and When to Register University Catalog Using MyCSULB Registration & Records Office 6. Review Costs and Financial Aid Options Make sure to review the Tuition and Fees webpage for costs and payment dates. Payment is due within 30 days of registration or by the pre-semester payment deadline, whichever date comes first unless you qualify for a financial aid deferment. Research the Financial Aid loan options that may be available to help you fund your education. 7. Set Up Your Campus Email CSULB students are required to maintain a current email address on file with the university and to check their email regularly as the university uses email as the official means of communication. Activate your BeachMail account here. 8. Learn About MyCSULB and CANVAS MyCSULB is your online center for class registration, financial aid awards and personalized student account information. CANVAS is CSULB’s online learning environment that includes online course catalogs, virtual classrooms, resources and more. Take some time to learn about these online tools as you will be using them often during your time at CSULB. Using MyCSULB Using CANVAS 9. Get Acquainted With the Campus Explore CSULB! Learn about parking options and view a campus map (pdf) to orient yourself with the CSULB! 10. Review Immunization Requirements Fall Deadline: June 1 Spring Deadline: December 1 All incoming students are required to comply with CSU Immunization Policy. Learn more about immunization policies and requirements via Student Health Services. 11. Check Out The Graduate Studies Resource Center The Graduate Studies Resource Center (GSRC), located in Library 504, provides resources for post-baccalaureate students, including: writing support, study space, and funding opportunities for student scholarships and travel grants for students to attend academic conferences. The GSRC also offers workshops and hosts graduate events such as their annual Graduate Research Conference, Graduate and Professional Schools Fair, and Graduate Writing Institute. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111