https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/steps-for-newly-admitted-first-time-first-year-students Steps for Newly Admitted First-Time, First-Year Students | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Key Dates and Deadlines Orientation (SOAR) Housing Residency Financial Aid and Scholarships Beach Road Map: First Year Beach XP: Learning Communities Day 1 Textbook Access CSULB Home Admissions Steps for Newly Admitted First-Time, First-Year Students Steps for Newly Admitted First-Time, First-Year Students Image As a first-time, first-year student at CSULB, you will have the opportunity to immerse yourself in unique experiences (both inside and outside of the classroom) that align with your academic goals and life pursuits. Explore and complete the steps below to ensure you meet all requirements necessary to begin your first semester at CSULB: 1. Activate Your Account and Student Email Deadline: May 1 Each student gets their own account to access online campus services and their own CSULB email address. This email address is the primary mode of communication from the university to students. Once you receive your offer of admission, you can follow these instructions to activate your student account: Image Go to the CSULB Password Utility and select Next. Then, enter your new CSULB email address (found in your admission email) and follow the instructions to set the password for your account. To set your password, you will need to confirm that it’s really you logging in by getting a verification code through a phone call or text message. (The phone number will be the one you used in your Cal State Apply application.) After you activate your account, you can log in to CSULB Single Sign-On at https://sso.csulb.edu, which is where you will be able to access your new email and other online services for students. 2. Accept Admission Offer Deadline: May 1 To accept your offer of admission: Log in to CSULB Single Sign-On and select MyCSULB Student Center. Throughout your time as a student, you'll use this hub to review your financial aid information, register for classes, check your account balance, and more. In the Admissions section, select “Accept/Decline.” Follow the instructions to Accept/Decline Admission Offer. When you accept your admission, you must pay the enrollment deposit, unless you qualify for a waiver. You can pay the enrollment deposit via credit card (MasterCard, American Express, Visa, and Discover are accepted) or electronic check. If you qualify for a waiver, the online process will automatically notify you. Once you accept your admission offer, you will receive an immediate confirmation that your acceptance and deposit have been accepted. 3. Complete Placement Exams (if required) Deadline: June 1 Depending on your major, you may be required to complete certain placement exams before you register for classes. These placement exams help determine the appropriate classes for you to enroll in. Your placement exam(s) must be completed before your advisement and registration date. Math Placement Exam: Students admitted to certain majors are required to take a math placement exam. Explore the Mathematics Placement page for details or connect with your academic advisor for support. Chemistry Placement Exam: Learn more about the eligibility criteria for the Chemistry Placement Test. Learn more about Academic Preparation. 4. Review Costs and Accept Any Financial Aid Offers Visit the Financial Aid for Newly Admitted Undergraduates page to explore the different types of aid available and how to accept any financial aid offers you may have received. Plus, be sure to also explore scholarship opportunities for incoming first-time, first-year students. Due to recent updates to the FAFSA process by the U.S. Department of Education, review Key Dates and Deadlines often for the latest updates regarding deadlines. 5. Sign Up for Student Orientation, Advising, and Registration (SOAR) Deadline: June 1 Student Orientation, Advising, and Registration (SOAR) is a comprehensive program designed to support your transition – both academically and socially – to California State University, Long Beach. Ready to sign up? Visit the SOAR website to make your SOAR reservation starting Wednesday, April 3, 2024. Get started by logging in to MyCSULB Student Center and select 'SOAR Sign-Up' in the Admissions section. Visit the Using MyCSULB Admissions page for support in navigating MyCSULB Student Center. Special Note About Registration: If you have any holds on your student record, you may be unable to register for classes. Prior to your SOAR session(s), check for any holds on your record by logging in to MyCSULB Student Center once you have activated your student account (refer to Step #1). Look for the Holds section and follow the instructions for any holds that may appear. If you need help or have questions about a hold, submit a help ticket with Beach Central. 6. Apply for Housing Deadline(s): See Housing Calendar and Important Dates Newly admitted students are encouraged to apply for University Housing once they have been admitted to the university. 7. Submit Final Transcripts and Test Scores Deadline: July 15 Admitted students who intend to enroll will be required to submit official transcripts in order to confirm high school graduation and finalize CSULB eligibility. Please do not send your high school transcript prior to your graduation unless requested. Submitting Official Transcripts Official transcripts may be mailed in their original, sealed envelope to: California State University, Long Beach Enrollment Services/Admission 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Electronic copies of official transcripts may be sent directly from your high school to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts cannot be forwarded by the student. Official transcripts may also be dropped off (in sealed original institution envelope) in person at Beach Central located on the first floor of Brotman Hall. Submitting Test Scores AP/IB Test Scores: Make sure to have official copies of your AP/IB test scores submitted for any potential college credits. Visit First-Time, First-Year Student Test and Transfer Credit for more information. SAT/ACT Test Scores: Although CSULB doesn't require SAT/ACT test score for Fall 2022 admission, we strongly encourage you to submit your SAT/ACT exam scores to ensure accurate placement in your courses. 8. Review Immunization Requirements Deadline: June 1 All incoming students are required to comply with CSU Immunization Policy. Learn more about immunization policies and requirements via Student Health Services. 9. Discover Helpful Tools and Resources Online Tools for Students: As a CSULB student, you’ll have access to online tools that will help you meet your educational goals: MyCSULB Student Center is your online center for class registration, financial aid awards, and personalized student account information. CANVAS is CSULB’s online learning environment that includes online course catalogs, virtual classrooms, resources and more. Beach Connect is CSULB’s mobile app for students. Beach Connect allows you to keep track of important to-dos and upcoming deadlines and make appointments with your advisors and other support resources. Beach Road Map is a resource that outlines key university information that you’ll need each year at CSULB. You can access MyCSULB Student Center and Beach Connect through CSULB Single Sign-On. Take some time to learn about these online tools, as you will be using them often during your time at CSULB: Using MyCSULB Using CANVAS Using Beach Connect Additional Campus Resources: Use the Ask Elbee chatbot in the bottom right corner of the screen to ask a question! You can also make an online appointment with an Admissions Counselor via Beach Central. Explore various programs and services provided by the Division of Student Affairs Purchase your parking permit and/or explore campus transportation via Parking and Transportation Services. Familiarize yourself with The Beach by exploring the campus map. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111