https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/steps-for-newly-admitted-transfers Steps for Newly Admitted Transfers | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Key Dates and Deadlines Financial Aid for Transfer Students Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) Campus Maps and Parking On Campus Housing Off Campus Housing Day 1 Textbook Access CSULB Home Admissions Steps for Newly Admitted Transfers Steps for Newly Admitted Transfers Image As a transfer student at CSULB, you will have the opportunity to immerse yourself in unique experiences (both inside and outside of the classroom) that can help you succeed with your academic goals and life pursuits. Explore and complete the steps below to ensure you meet all requirements necessary to transition your academic experience to The Beach: 1. Activate Your Account and Student Email Deadline: May 1 Each student gets their own account to access online campus services and their own CSULB email address. This email address is the primary mode of communication from the university to students. Once you receive your offer of admission, you can follow these instructions to activate your student account: Go to the CSULB Password Utility and select Next. Then, enter your new CSULB email address (found in your acceptance email) and follow the instructions to set the password for your account. To set your password, you will need to confirm that it’s really you logging in by getting a verification code through a phone call or text message. (The phone number will be the one you used in your Cal State Apply application.) After you activate your account, you can log in to CSULB Single Sign-On at https://sso.csulb.edu, which is where you will be able to access your new email and other online services for students. 2. Accept Admission Offer Deadline: May 1 To accept your offer of admission: Log in to CSULB Single Sign-On and select MyCSULB Student Center. Throughout your time as a student, you'll use this hub to review your financial aid information, register for classes, check your account balance, and more. In the Admissions section, select “Accept/Decline.” Follow the instructions to Accept/Decline Admission Offer. When you accept your admission, you must pay the non-refundable enrollment deposit, unless you qualify for a waiver. You can pay the enrollment deposit via credit card (MasterCard, American Express, Visa, and Discover are accepted) or electronic check. If you qualify for a waiver, the online process will automatically notify you. Once you accept your admission offer, you will receive an immediate confirmation that your acceptance and deposit have been accepted. 3. Satisfy the Terms of Your Admission Offer It is important to understand that admission to the University is a multi-step process. Our offer of Conditional Admission is based on the information you reported on your Supplemental Application. As you would imagine, this information will need to be confirmed based on submission of official academic records, including college transcripts, test scores, verifications of degree, or military records. Your first responsibility in satisfying the terms of your admission offer is to submit official copies of all requested documents in time to meet the published deadline. Once we receive your official documents, we will make a careful review of your academic record. We will expect to see that you have met the minimum criteria for CSU eligibility and that you have accurately reported your progress towards meeting the lower division preparation for your intended major. Some of the things we will be checking for include: The Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT): Did you report that you are participating in the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) as part of your application for admission? If so, we will need confirmation from your Community College that you are in the correct program and that you intend to graduate prior to beginning your enrollment at CSULB. If for any reason you will not be completing your ADT as originally reported, please contact Enrollment Services immediately as this could affect your admission status. Grade Point Averages: Is the grade point average you reported on your Supplemental Application accurate? Based on your official college transcripts we will be calculating your overall college grade point to see if it is close to what you indicated. Additionally, some programs require a minimum GPA for lower division course work in their major. You will not be penalized for minor inaccuracies, but we do expect to see a grade point average that is competitive for your intended major. Course Work Completed: Based on your transcripts and/or test scores, we will verify that you have completed (or will complete) sufficient units to meet junior standing (60 transferable semester units/90 transferable quarter units) or better. We will also review your academic record to verify that you have completed (or will complete) courses appropriate to meet CSU General Education requirements and Major Specific Requirements for admission. Course Work Planned: Courses you indicated as “Planned” on your Supplemental Application should be completed with a least a grade of “C” or better, but you should endeavor to maintain a competitive grade point average. Please remember that courses should be completed in the timeframe originally indicated on your Supplemental Application; if you withdraw from a course in order to take it a future term, you may jeopardize your admission status. Department Approval: Some Highly Impacted majors require submission of additional documentation directly to the academic department, and the admission offer is subject to the approval of the faculty. The admission offer is conditional based on a review of your official records by the Office of Enrollment Services. We will be communicating with you by email with the result of our review, so be sure we have a current and correct address for you, and that you check your email often. If we find that an applicant is no longer CSU eligible and/or competitive in their major, then we may withdraw our offer of admission. Please contact us at the Office of Enrollment Services if you have any questions or concerns at (562) 985-5471, or by opening an admissions inquiry online. For more information on satisfying the terms of your admission offer, visit the application process. 4. Submit Initial Transcripts Deadline: March 18 Admitted students who intend to enroll will be required to submit initial transcripts in order to confirm college courses completed/in-progress. Official transcripts may be mailed in their original, sealed envelope to: California State University, Long Beach Enrollment Services/Admission 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Electronic copies of official transcripts may be sent directly from your college or university to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts cannot be forwarded by the student. Official transcripts may also be dropped off (in sealed original institution envelope) in person at Beach Central located on the first floor of Brotman Hall. 5. Review Costs and Accept Any Financial Aid Offers Visit the Financial Aid for Newly Admitted Undergraduates page to explore the different types of aid available and how to accept any financial aid offers you may have received. Plus, be sure to also explore scholarship opportunities for Incoming Transfer Students. Due to recent updates to the FAFSA process by the U.S. Department of Education, review Key Dates and Deadlines often for the latest updates regarding deadlines. 6. Sign Up for Student Orientation, Advising, and Registration (SOAR) Deadline: June 1 Student Orientation, Advising, and Registration (SOAR) is a comprehensive program designed to support your transition – both academically and socially – to California State University, Long Beach. Visit the SOAR website for the latest updates about orientation and advising. Ready to sign up? Make your SOAR reservation starting April 2, 2025. Get started by logging in to MyCSULB Student Center and select 'SOAR Sign-Up' in the Admissions section. Visit the Using MyCSULB Admissions page for support in navigating MyCSULB Student Center. Watch the tutorial video below for sign up instructions and additional support. How to Sign Up Video Tutorial: Image Special Note About Registration: If you have any holds on your student record, you may be unable to register for classes. Prior to your SOAR session(s), check for any holds on your record by logging in to MyCSULB once you have activated your student account (refer to Step #1). Look for the Holds section and follow the instructions for any holds that may appear. If you need help or have questions about a hold, submit a help ticket with Beach Central. 7. Submit Final Transcripts Deadline: July 15 Admitted students who intend to enroll will be required to submit final official transcripts in order to confirm college courses completed and finalize CSULB transfer eligibility. Official transcripts may be mailed in their original, sealed envelope to: California State University, Long Beach Enrollment Services/Admission 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Electronic copies of official transcripts may be sent directly from your college or university to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts cannot be forwarded by the student. Official transcripts may also be dropped off (in sealed original institution envelope) in person at Beach Central located on the first floor of Brotman Hall. 8. Apply for Housing Deadline(s): See Housing Calendar and Important Dates Newly-admitted students are encouraged to apply for University Housing once they have been admitted to the university. 9. Review Immunization Requirements Deadline: January 15 All incoming students are required to comply with CSU Immunization Policy. Learn more about immunization policies and requirements via Student Health Services. 10. Register for the GPE (if required) Transfer students must take the Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement Placement Exam (GPE) no later than their first semester at CSULB. It is strongly encouraged that you take the exam one month prior to attending SOAR orientation, as it can help you with registering for the correct sequence of classes. 11. Discover Helpful Tools and Resources Online Tools for Students: As a CSULB student, you’ll have access to online tools that will help you meet your educational goals: MyCSULB Student Center is your online center for class registration, financial aid awards, and personalized student account information. CANVAS is CSULB’s online learning environment that includes online course catalogs, virtual classrooms, resources and more. Beach Connect is CSULB’s mobile app for students. Beach Connect allows you to keep track of important to-dos and upcoming deadlines and make appointments with your advisors and other support resources. You can access MyCSULB Student Center and Beach Connect through CSULB Single Sign-On. Take some time to learn about these online tools, as you will be using them often during your time at CSULB: Using MyCSULB Using CANVAS Using Beach Connect Additional Campus Resources: Use the Ask Elbee chatbot in the bottom right corner of the screen to ask a question! You can also make an online appointment with an Admissions Counselor via Beach Central. Explore various programs and services provided by the Division of Student Affairs Purchase your parking permit and/or explore campus transportation via Parking and Transportation Services. Familiarize yourself with The Beach by exploring the campus map. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111