https://www.csulb.edu/student-life Student Life | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 CSULB Home Student Life Student Life Welcome to The Beach Living on Campus We create inclusive communities that foster student health and wellness, personal and social development, academic excellence and good citizenship. In collaboration with our campus partners, we are responsive to the needs of our residents and clients and endeavor to provide high quality service. Housing Meal Plans Student Health Services Student Employment There are many on- and off-campus job opportunities for CSULB students. The Career Development Center offers various services to help CSULB students explore careers and prepare for life after The Beach. It also offers CareerLINK, which provides students with the ability to search and apply for full-time and part-time jobs, internships and on-campus interview opportunities Student Recreation & Wellness Center The Student Recreation and Wellness Center (SRWC) is a 126,500-square-foot, two-story, state-of-the-art recreation facility located on the east side of the California State University, Long Beach campus. The facility is a hub for recreational activities, programs, and opportunities for Intramural Sports, Fitness, and Wellness services. Dining Services The 49er Shops Dining Services are proud to serve the campus community with a large selection of healthy, sustainable, and culturally diverse dining options across campus. Whether you’re in the mood to relax and hang out, or buckle down and study, every dining location provides you with a unique atmosphere to fit your needs. Restaurants Residential Dining Convenience Stores Diversity Providing leadership and direction to achieve a positive, continuing, and vigorous campus nondiscrimination and equal opportunity program that goes well beyond the fulfillment of basic regulatory and procedural requirements to one with emphasis on providing positive attention to serving the needs of the campus. Office Of Equity & Diversity Resources Disability Bob Murphy Access Center assists students with disabilities as they secure their university degrees at California State University, Long Beach. Learn more: Accessible Instructional Materials Center (AIM Center) Accesible Technology Initiative ASI Associated Students, Inc. is a nonprofit membership association and auxiliary organization of the university. The mission of ASI is to improve the quality of campus life for students while enhancing their educational experience. Students automatically become members of the association when they pay their mandatory student fees at the time of registration. Image Amazon @TheBeach offers a secure, convenient location for Amazon order pickup and free returns. Prime and Prime Student members also get Free Same-Day Pickup on millions of items. 6049 E 7th Street, Long Beach, CA 90840 Open 7 days a week: 9 a.m.-9 p.m. Parking Info Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111