https://www.csulb.edu/student-records Student Records | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Student Records Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Current Undergraduate Declare a Major (Pre-Majors/Undeclared) Change of Major (Undergraduates) Major-Specific Degree Requirements for CSULB Students Academic Requirements Report (ARR) Graduation Checklist (Undergraduates) Apply to Graduate (Undergraduate) Timely Graduation Supplemental Credit for CSULB Students Undergraduate Advising Resources Graduate Graduation Checklist (Master's Degrees) Graduation Checklist (Doctoral Students) Apply To Graduate (Graduate Students) Academic Requirements Report (ARR) Graduate Advising Resources Credential/Certificate Credential Programs Obtaining Your Certificate Registration Registration Information Schedule of Classes Registration Holds Waitlists Repeating Courses Reserved Seats Enrollment Options Dropping & Withdrawing Permission to Add Student Unit Load Former/Alumni Visitors Faculty and Staff Contact How and When to Register University Catalog General Education Requirements Major-Specific Requirements Using MyCSULB Student Center Academic Requirements Report (ARR) Degree Planner Forms FERPA for Students Order Transcripts Student Workshops CSU Fully Online CSULB Home Student Records Welcome to Student Records Image The Office of the Registrar (Student Records) processes and maintains student registration; develops and implements policies and procedures to ensure the integrity, security, and preservation of each student's official academic record; and is a resource for students to help them meet all degree requirements necessary to graduate in a timely manner. Every student's journey at The Beach is unique, and Student Records looks forward to helping you achieve your academic goals! Important Deadlines: Stay on top of important Enrollment Services deadlines--including class registration dates, tuition and fee reminders, when to apply for graduation, and more--by regularly visiting Key Dates and Deadlines. Explore the resources below to learn about registration policies and procedures. Plus, navigate the left menu for more services offered by Student Records--including guides on how to use your Academic Requirements Report (ARR), access planning tools (Degree Planner), order transcripts, and more. Schedule of Classes Select a term to view the regular session course schedule. You can view offerings by Academic Subject, by College, or by General Education Category by using the buttons at the top of each page. The lists are updated regularly to reflect the latest changes. Visit the Schedule of Classes for more support. Fall Courses Spring Courses Summer Courses Winter Courses May Intersession Courses Registration Dates and Deadlines Select a term to explore the latest key registration dates and deadlines. Understand when the schedule of classes is available, when to register for classes, when you can add/drop classes, and more. Fall and Spring Dates Summer Dates Winter Dates May Intersession Dates Final Exam Schedule Dates Tuition and Fees Learn all about how and when to pay your tuition and fees. The CSU makes every effort to keep student costs to a minimum. Fees listed in published schedules or student accounts may need to be increased when public funding is inadequate. Therefore, CSU must reserve the right, even after fees are initially charged or initial fee payments are made, to increase or modify any listed fees. All listed fees, other than mandatory system-wide fees, are subject to change without notice, until the date when instruction for a particular semester or quarter has begun. Tuition and Fees Information Summer Tuition and Fees Looking for Registration Support? Academic Requirements Report and Degree Planner Your Academic Requirements Report (ARR) and Degree Planner are tools that can help you, together with your advisor, to plan the classes you need to graduate in a timely manner. Use these features of your MyCSULB Student Center each term. Using MyCSULB to Enroll Understand how the features in the Academics section of your MyCSULB Student Center can help you register for your classes. See how to plan your enrollment, confirm enrollment results, work with waitlists, modify your schedule, and more. Registration Information Learn more about what you can do to prepare to register for your classes; how and when to enroll; and the steps needed to finalize your enrollment. Understand how to check for holds, what you can to to add/drop classes, and how to pay your fees. Contact Student Records Use the Ask Elbee chatbot in the bottom right corner of the screen to ask a question any time! If you have a specific issue or request related to your enrollment or student record, contact Student Records for support. Submit a help ticket, visit the Beach Central intake windows, schedule an appointment, and more. Image For support with Admissions; Financial Aid and Scholarships; and Student Records, submit a help ticket or make an appointment (virtual or in-person). Contact Us Visit: Intake Windows Brotman Hall, First Floor Courtyard Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Beach Central Appointments Brotman Hall, 201 Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Walk-ins welcome! Call: Phone: 562.985.5471 Phone Service Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. For Accessible Assistance Explore the Bob Murphy Access Center Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111