https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/teaching-credential-programs Teaching Credential Programs | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Financial Aid for Credential Students Steps for Newly Admitted Credential Students Other Credential Programs Graduate Application Guide (PDF) CSULB Home Admissions Teaching Credential Programs Teaching Credential Programs Teaching credentials in the State of California are regulated by the legislature and administered by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CCTC). While students are admitted to CSULB and take classes through our programs, the credential is ultimately awarded by the CCTC. If you have completed a bachelor’s degree and are interested in pursuing a teaching credential as a post-baccalaureate student, please review the information below to ensure your application experience is a positive one. What Teaching Credential Programs Does CSULB Offer? The Teacher Preparation and Advising Center (TPAC) in the College of Education offers pre-program and in-program advising and information for individuals who are interested in pursuing one of the following teaching credential programs: Single Subject Credential: Prepares candidate to teach the specific subject named on the credential in departmentalized classes, at any grade level- kindergarten and grades 1 through 12. Most teachers with this credential teach classes in middle, junior high or senior high schools. Candidates earn a Preliminary Single Subject Credential in a specific subject area. Multiple Subject Credential: Prepares candidate to teach all subjects in a self-contained classroom at in grades K-8. Candidates earn a Preliminary Multiple Subject Credential. Special Education Credential: Prepares candidate to teach individuals in the areas of Mild/Moderate or Moderate/Severe disabilities. This credential certifies individuals to work as a special day class teacher, inclusion support teacher or resource specialist from kindergarten to age 22. Candidates earn a Preliminary Education Specialist Instruction Credential. Urban Dual Credential: Prepares candidates to teach both in the elementary general education classroom as well as the elementary/middle school special education setting. Candidates earn both a Preliminary Multiple Subject and Preliminary Education Specialist Instruction Credential. How Do I Qualify for Admission to a Teaching Credential Program? To qualify for admission to the university as a post-baccalaureate student to pursue a teaching credential and enroll in prerequisite courses, you must meet general university admission requirements as well as the professional, personal, scholastic or other standards as prescribed by the program. The minimum university admission requirements for post-baccalaureate consideration are: Complete a four-year college course of study and hold an acceptable baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution by the end of the summer term prior to Fall enrollment or the end of the Fall semester for Spring enrollment. Be in good standing at the last college or university you attended. Meet the minimum GPA requirements for admission to the university. This can be met in any of the following ways: Hold an advanced degree Hold a baccalaureate degree with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5. Hold a baccalaureate degree with a GPA of at least 2.5 in the last 60 semester or 90 quarter units you attempted, excluding lower-division and/or extension coursework attempted after the baccalaureate degree. Students in the process of completing a baccalaureate degree may be admitted on a provisional basis, subject to proof of degree completion, if their cumulative GPA is at least 2.7 or if the GPA in their last 60 semester or 90 quarter units are calculated at a 2.5 or higher. An official transcript showing degree completion must be submitted or the offer of admission will be withdrawn. What is the Application Deadline? The application period for Spring admission begins on August 1, and the application period for Fall admission begins on October 1. Be sure to review the application deadline webpage and the Teacher Preparation Advising Center website to verify the deadline for the term you are seeking admission. How Do I Apply for a Teaching Credential Program? Submit the university application online: When you are ready to apply, visit Cal State Apply – Teaching Credential to submit the university admission application and pay the $70 nonrefundable application fee online by the application deadline. Visit the Teacher Preparation Advising Center website for tips on filling out the university application. Be aware that the CSU does not offer application fee waivers for credential applicants. CSULB graduates or candidates must reapply to the university under the same conditions and deadlines as all other applicants. The CSULB Admissions Office will send you a notification by email to acknowledge receipt of your application. Students may only be considered for one application per academic term and will only be considered for the program for which they initially applied. Submit your transcripts: Please submit one set of official transcripts from each college or university you have attended. Only one set of official transcripts is required, and they must be submitted to Enrollment Services. Official transcripts may be submitted electronically directly from a U.S. college or university to ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu. Official transcripts may also be sent in a sealed envelope to the address below: Enrollment Services/Admissions California State University, Long Beach 1250 Bellflower Blvd. Long Beach, CA 90840 Verify the program application requirements: The teaching credential programs require a separate program application that is submitted after completion of prerequisite courses. For information on the teaching credential program application process, visit the Teacher Preparation Advising Center website. When Will I Be Notified of the Admission Decision? The CSULB Admissions Office will review your application and transcripts to verify your eligibility based on the minimum university admission requirements. If you meet these minimum requirements, your application will be forwarded to the credential program for review. You will receive notification of your admission status after the credential program has made their decision. CSULB uses email as the official means of communication, so applicants are required to maintain a current email address on file with the university and check their email regularly. You may update your email address or check the status of your admission application by visiting the Applicant Self-Service webpage. What is Provisional Admission? Credential applicants may be offered admission on a provisional basis if certain requirements (such as the baccalaureate degree) are in progress at the time of admission. These requirements must be completed prior to enrollment in the program, and failure to meet these requirements will result in the rescission of the admission offer. Students who are offered “provisional admission” must submit to Enrollment Services a final official transcript showing the conferral date for the baccalaureate degree as follows: If you were offered provisional admission for the spring semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than January 15. If you were offered provisional admission for the fall semester, you must submit the final official transcript no later than August 15. After receipt of the final transcript, the admission decision will be audited to ensure all requirements have been met. If the requirements have not been met, the student will receive notification that the offer of admission has been rescinded. Students will be allowed to enroll for classes prior to receipt of the transcript; however, if proof of degree completion is not received by the deadline, classes will be administratively dropped. What is Conditional Admission? Most students are admitted to teaching credential programs on a conditional basis. Students seeking a teaching credential must complete prerequisite and co-requisite courses and an application process by the end of the second semester in order to maintain admission to the program. The program will review the progress of the student to determine if the required coursework and the credential application process will be met by the end of the second semester. Admission to the university will be withdrawn if it is determined that the requirements are not met by the end of the second semester of enrollment. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111