https://www.csulb.edu/admissions/transfer-admission-eligibility Transfer Admission Eligibility | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content Admissions Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu ES Home Enrollment Services Home Beach Central (Student Services) Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Records Key Dates and Deadlines Forms Prospective Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Home First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students Academic Preparation Test and Transfer Credit Orientation (SOAR) Beach Pledge Program Undergraduate Advising Resources Cancel Admission Transfer Students Transfer Next Steps Transferring Credit to CSULB Orientation (SOAR) Undergraduate Advising Resources Beach Pledge Program (2 Year Option) Cancel Admission Graduate Graduate Admission Next Steps Cancel Admission Credential/Certificate Next Steps for Certificate Students Next Steps for Credential Students Cancel Admission Second Bachelor Programs Parents/Families Parent and Family Orientation Parent & Family Financial Aid Information Campus Life, Safety and Support Contact Prospective Students Home Applicant Self-Service First-Time, First-Year Students (Freshmen) Admission Eligibility Application Process Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Local Area Preference First-Time, First-Year Special Programs Transfer Students Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Application Process Major-Specific Degree Requirements for Transfers Student Orientation, Advising, & Registration (SOAR) Supplemental Application Transfer Local Area Preference Transfer ADT Program Graduate Programs Graduate Admission Eligibility Graduate Programs Application Process Apply To A CSU Graduate Program Credential/Certificate Programs Teaching Credential Programs Other Credential Programs Certificate Programs College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) Transfer Application Process Transfer ADT Program Supplemental Application for Transfers Applicant Self Service Local Preference Admission Consideration Steps for Newly Admitted Transfers CSULB Home Admissions Transfer Admission Eligibility Transfer Admission Eligibility You are invited to apply to Cal State Long Beach as a transfer applicant if you have completed coursework at a college or university since leaving high school, but you have not yet completed a bachelor’s degree. We receive applications from thousands of highly qualified applicants each year. Applicants are admitted based on California State University minimum criteria, as well as on CSU Long Beach’s Major-Specific Degree Requirements. These criteria include unit minimums, lower-division course work, General Education courses, and minimum grade point averages. You must carefully choose a major when you apply to CSULB as an upper-division transfer; if you do not qualify for your first choice, you will not be considered for an alternate major. Image New GE Requirements Beginning Fall 2025 The CSU Board of Trustees approved changes to Title 5 CSU General Education requirements that will impact students attending CSULB beginning with the Fall 2025 incoming class. Learn more about the upcoming 2025 GE Requirement updates Apply for Fall Semester Apply for Spring Semester October 1 - December 2 August 1 - August 31 How to Apply Explore more categories below: What are the minimum CSU Upper-Division transfer requirements? You are considered a transfer applicant if you have completed coursework at a college or university since leaving high school, but you have not yet completed a bachelor’s degree. To be considered for transfer admission to CSULB you must meet the following minimum requirements by the end of the prior spring term for fall admission and by the end of the previous summer term for spring admission: Complete 60 transferable semester units or 90 transferable quarter units. Have a minimum, overall college GPA of 2.00 or higher in all transferable college course work attempted. Be in good standing at the last college or university attended in a regular session. Complete a minimum of 30 semester units or 45 quarter units in courses approved to meet CSU General Education (GE) requirements. Complete with a grade of C or better the CSU GE requirements in English Composition, Critical Thinking, Oral Communication, and Mathematical Concepts and Quantitative Reasoning. NOTE: CSULB is closed to Lower-Division Transfer Applications with the exception of a limited number of highly-qualified Nursing students. What are Major-Specific Requirements? In order to support the academic success of CSULB students, academic programs have determined the academic coursework and preparation that best predict successful completion of the major and timely graduation. These requirements include general education courses, coursework critical to success in the major, and minimum grade point average criteria. There are two possible pathways you can follow to demonstrate preparation in your intended major: The first pathway is to complete the Major-Specific Requirements for Transfer listed on the CSULB website. These requirements reflect the lower-division major preparation recommended by the department faculty at CSU Long Beach. For detailed criteria for each CSULB major, please visit Major-Specific Requirements for Transfer. The second possible pathway is the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT). The Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) curriculum is used in lieu of the specific course requirements listed on the CSULB website. The Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) can be completed at your California Community College. Please note the following: The Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) is not the same as a “regular” Associate degree from a California Community College. The Associate Degree for Transfer provides lower-division preparation in a particular major; a traditional Associate degree does not. Not all majors at CSULB have a corresponding ADT at every California Community College. If you chose the ADT pathway, be sure you are pursuing a degree that has been deemed similar to your intended major at CSULB. Please follow up with the counselors at your Transfer Center, or visit the website at adegreewithaguarantee.com. You must complete your Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) prior to your first semester at CSULB. If for any reason you do not complete your ADT in a timely manner, you will be held to the Major-Specific Requirements for Transfer on the CSULB website (see above). For more information about the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) and transfer admission eligibility at CSULB, please visit Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT). Remember that all major-specific course requirements must be completed with a C or better. What are the deadlines for completing admission criteria? For fall semester admission, coursework and unit minimums must be completed no later than the prior spring term. For spring semester admission, coursework and unit minimums must be completed no later than the prior summer term. Please understand that we are obliged to confirm that you have met all admission criteria based on a review of your official academic record. We find that if the applicant is completing admission requirements in the term immediately preceding their first semester at CSU Long Beach that it is usually not possible for a student to submit a final official college transcript in time to enroll at CSULB. Please work with your transfer counselors to complete all critical admission criteria, including unit minimums and course work, by the time you submit your application to CSULB. How will students be considered for admission? Except for “highly impacted” majors, CSU eligible applicants who are considered local based on their high school of graduation or their military veteran status will be offered admission if they meet the major-specific minimum cumulative GPA and required lower-division preparation. See Local Preference Admission Consideration for more information. For local applicants who apply to a highly impacted major, their cumulative grade point average (GPA) will be increased by 0.1 during the admissions process. This calculated GPA will be applied to the competitive ranking and departmental review for admissibility to a highly impacted program. Other CSU eligible applicants who have met the Major-Specific minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) and the minimum required lower-division preparation will be considered on a space available basis based on their academic performance compared with other applicants for the major. In rare cases, if space is available after all students meeting the minimum major GPA and preparation have been accommodated, then CSU eligible students without the minimum major preparation may be considered. Students admitted to the major who have not completed the additional recommended transfer requirements or the additional CSULB requirements must complete them in their first year at CSULB. Students who report they have completed, or plan to complete, their CSU eligibility and/or the minimum major preparation requirements, but fail to do so, may have their offer of admissions withdrawn. What are Highly Impacted Majors and how does this affect admission decisions? While admission to all of our majors is competitive, some majors are extremely space-constrained and have a higher impaction level than other majors. Please review the Major-Specific Requirements for Transfer. If a major is “highly impacted,” it will be noted next to the name of the major. Highly impacted majors require additional supplemental criteria and these requirements are indicated in the major-specific details. Supplemental criteria may include interviews, auditions, portfolios, or other academic credentials, and the applicant is strongly advised to contact the major department directly for more information. All applicants to these highly impacted majors will be ranked based on completion of the Major-Specific Requirements, additional preparation coursework completed, and the supplemental criteria listed. Students who have been granted local preference and apply to a highly impacted major will have their cumulative grade point average (GPA) increased by 0.1 during the admissions process. This calculated GPA will be applied to the competitive ranking and departmental review for admission consideration. Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111