https://www.csulb.edu/university-police University Police | California State University Long Beach Skip to main content University Police Utility Menu Explore Apply Give Students Faculty & Staff Future Students Parents & Family Alumni Community News Media Fans Academics Colleges & Degrees Research Academic Calendar International Education Library Graduate Studies About About Us Accreditation Tuition and Fees Parking & Maps Careers with CSULB Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Volunteering Alumni Giving Campus Life Athletics Centers & Organizations Commencement Events Housing Student Life Divisions Office of the President Academic Affairs Administration & Finance Student Affairs University Relations & Development Information Technology Resources MyCSULB Canvas Beach Shops Campus Directory Email Admissions Enrollment Services Financial Aid Schedule of Classes Student Records 49er Foundation Research Foundation Help University Policies Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111 Open Menu University Police Police Home Contact Us About Campus Crime Bulletins Enforcement Authority Department Policies Past Newsletters Divisions Communications Patrol Support Services Crime Prevention Investigations K9 Unit Emergency Operations Center Programs & Services Bike U-Lock Program Night Safety Escort Program Community Service Officers (CSO Program) LiveScan Fingerprinting Training Opportunities Active Shooter Response Training Defensive Driving Emergency Preparedness Training R.A.D. Women's Self-Defense Ride-Along Program Your Safety "Run. Hide. Fight." Video Personal Defense Weapons on Campus Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, and Stalking Safety Tips and Resources Top 10 Safety Tips for Students Security Awareness Emergency Procedures for Syllabus (PDF) Bomb Threat Call Procedures and Checklist (PDF) Campus Policies Alcohol, Drugs, and Weapons Policies Electric Scooter Policy Immigration on Campus (PDF) Skateboard Policy Annual Reports CSU Systemwide Hate Crimes Report 2023 (PDF) Campus Safety Plan 2025 (PDF) Security Report / Clery Act 2024 (PDF) Assisting Distressed or Disruptive Students (PDF) Blue Light Emergency Phones Title IX Common Types of Scams Emergency Preparedness Assisting Individuals with Access or Functional Needs Building Marshal Program Campus Drills Emergency Notification System (BeachALERT) Emergency Operations Plan Evacuation Plans Incident Command System Training Personal Preparedness Emergency Reference Guides Hazards/Threats Medical/Public Health Emergencies Natural Disasters Police Home Contact Us About Campus Crime Bulletins Enforcement Authority Department Policies Past Newsletters Campus Safety Plan 2025 Clery Annual Security Report (PDF) Community Engagement Group CSA Clery Report Form Request a Training "RUN. HIDE. FIGHT." Video Victim Resources University Police Twitter University Police Instagram CSULB Home University Police Welcome to the University Police Department Image As the Chief of Police for the CSULB Police Department, I am proud to lead a department that upholds the values of our university: Teaching and Learning, Compassion, Diversity, and Public Good. The CSULB Police Department serves 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, providing a safe and secure environment for our campus community. Within our website, you will find valuable information about campus safety, crime prevention, and programs and services designed to enhance your safety and well-being. I am particularly excited about our department's future and the diversity and growth it will bring. We are currently participating in the 30x30 initiative, which aims to increase the representation of women in policing. Additionally, our programs like the RAD Women's Self Defense, Night Safety Escort Program, and Community Service Officer (CSO) program emphasize our commitment to serving our students and promoting a safer campus environment. I encourage you to explore our website and learn more about how the CSULB Police Department is working to ensure your safety. Campus safety is a shared responsibility and together, we can create a campus environment that is safe, inclusive, and welcoming for all. John Brockie, Chief of Police Image Updated on: August 1, 2024 Vision and Mission Vision Statement The California State University Long Beach Police Department strives to maintain the highest standards of excellence by developing our personnel and utilizing new technologies to cultivate a safe learning and work environment for our Students, Faculty, and Staff. CSULB Police Department personnel strive to conduct themselves in a professional, sincere, and exemplary manner to which other law enforcement personnel can aspire to. Mission Statement It is the Mission of the California State University Long Beach Police Department to safeguard the lives and property of the campus community that we serve. We strive everyday to create a safe and secure environment, promoting safety and reducing the threat of crime, to create an atmosphere whereby meaningful education and learning can take place. We strive to provide service to all with understanding and compassion, while conducting ourselves with honor and integrity. Image SUBMIT AN ANONYMOUS CRIME TIP Main Station: The main station is open 24/7 and is the brick building located south of the Student Recreation and Wellness Center, off Palo Verde Ave. 24/7 Non-Emergency Line: 562.985.4101 Anonymous Tip Line: 562.985.0042 Text-to-911 is available on campus Community Engagement Office: Located next to "Amazon @ The Beach" along the west side of the Bookstore, by lot E10. Image 9-1-1 Call if you can, text if you can't Services University Police Emergency Information Crisis Resources (CAST) Health & Wellness Resources Accessibility Statement Colleges The Arts Business Engineering Health & Human Services Education College of Professional and Continuing Education Liberal Arts Natural Sciences & Mathematics Additional Resources News Enforcement Actions on Campus Careers CSU System Annual Security Report (Clery) Download Document Reader Site Index Title IX Campus Safety Plan Privacy Notice Pregnant and Parenting Students Systemwide Hate Crimes Report Free Speech Contact Us Notice of Nondiscrimination Puvungna Space Beach Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin 1250 BELLFLOWER BOULEVARD LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA 90840 562.985.4111